The sense of disconnection and lack of bodily encounter emphasised by the pandemic has heightened tactility as an utmost craved need. “Magnetic Knit” embodies the tension towards contact by designing garments with textures that are both futuristic and primal in their spirit. The sense of touch through which we experience our universe from its outset fosters here the encounter between fashion and technology. 

By employing 3D printing techniques, items able to attract nearby elements by means of magnetic pulls come to life. Furthermore, the keenness to adopt an interdisciplinary approach reveals the inspiration from the musical realm crucial to the designer’s creative reflections, specifically with regard to Tape Music composition. The sound linearity typical of this genre engages in dialogue with the threads intertwining belonging to the knitting process, thus unearthing an accurate metallic pattern with a magnetising quality.

As a result, a gravitational field exists between the wearer and their immediate environment by unfolding an emotional stream of mutual linkage.

“Inspired by my disconnected feeling of lack in physical interaction due to the pandemic, I wanted to highlight the emotional connection in tactile sensation through knitting. And I started off by revisiting my dissertation about Tape music.” 

“Tape music is an integral part of Musique Concrète, using pre-recorded fragments and sampled sounds, manipulating magnetic tapes to produce music.”

Sounds are recorded by magnetic tapes whereas memories are connected to the sense of touch.
“By looking into techniques in Tape Music composition, I found the connection through knit. Tape music composition is based on linear music whereas knitting relies on multiple continuous threads. There are techniques in common like splicing and cutting in both tape music and knitting. Sounds are recorded by magnetic tapes whereas memories are connected to the sense of touch.” 

“Researching into magnetism, I transformed magnetic field lines and my own science experiment of iron filings and magnets into textiles.”

“I proposed a new idea of craft, the 3d printed Magnetic Knit that attracts magnets. I experimented with 3d printing models to mimic knit structures. Then print the model on my own knitted textiles to make them attract magnets. I aim to design knitted accessories that can quickly attach and detach to other magnetic accessories for the fast-paced future world.”

“The collection expresses an aesthetic of science and sport, exploring future knitwear possibilities.”



