On words and their meaning.
An introduction
Sometimes the most appropriate way to approach a topic and
introduce an insight into it might be to conduct a reflection on the
fundamental keywords defining it and on their meanings, although
they might appear as already well known or even obvious.
This may result in a useful path to undertake in accordance with
the aim to trace links among different perspective and fields of
interest.
For this very reason, before going into the unfolding of this paper, it
is my intention to bring up here three terms, fundamental for the
subject I'm going to address, looking at their significance also with
the support of the etymology. A possible interpretation and a
connection among them will constitute the next moment in my
observation.
Moreover, reflecting on words and their meaning represents how I
got interested in the topic since the beginning, and consequently, it
seems to be essential for the basis of this short essay.
Getting more specific, I have always been fascinated by the
effects, the shifts and the alterations the Digital leads to, and how
the constant immersion and attendance in those ‘places/nonplaces’
offered by the Internet may affect our behaviours and
understanding of the reality surrounding us, and consequently its
impact on both social and individual perception. For the purpose of
this writing, I’m going to focus on how this phenomenon might
involve our emotional dimension and relational sphere, by means of
a distance and mediated communication.
Following this logic, digital is the first and perhaps broader term I’d
like to observe.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary1, words over time can
undergo changes in meaning and usage, however as far as the
scientific and technological lexicon is concerned this process
seems to be different because for each new invention or discovery
a new term is coined and widespread. The term digital can be
considered an exception to that since it is not a recently coined
word, rather has gone through evolutions over decades.
Back to the fifteen century, the term designated a whole number
less than ten, and in a more common sense it referred to the Latin
word ‘digitus’ - finger - and afterwards to the ability to count with
fingers.
However, until the mid-twentieth century digital was not widely
used, its greater importance appeared just at the time when it was
used in opposition to ‘analogue', with a more technical
connotation, and with reference to a new kind of computing
machines and devices developed at that time.
In a later moment, the word underwent a further extension and
was applied to different types of information, broadcast methods,
and media, up to the expanded concept we still recognize today.
Some of the first concepts that may come to mind when thinking
of digital are those of accessibility, hyper-connectivity, usability,
interactivity, dematerialization or virtualization, features and
properties that only partially relate to the technique functioning
mechanisms, rather they refer mostly to the potential and also the
consequences provided by such a tool. These match, to some
degree, with the possibilities generally granted and offered by the
Internet itself, so that the two notions appear as overlapped and
deeply intersected. And since the Internet - intended as a global
extension of us as individuals and as an omnipresent infrastructure
-, is an integral part of our lives, even the word digital has become
an obvious aspect of today's reality.
Nevertheless, now the term, which had acquired great relevance in
the past century, seems to have partially lost its prominence
precisely because of the expanded use that has been made of it,
becoming part of a universally shared and accepted convention,
so that we can speak instead about a post-digital dimension. This
is something that will be explored later over this paper.
The second term I want to look at, in reference to the main topic of
the essay, is that of emotion. This will require a shorter and even
more immediate explanation.
The etymology of this word is to be traced back to the Latin verb
‘emovère’ (ex: out + movere: move), literally bring out, stir, and in a
broader sense, shake, excite. Thus, the emotion is nothing other
than an agitation, a jolting, a vibration of the soul, of our inner
dimension with effects both on our psychological and physical
dimension, determined and caused by events, circumstances or
particular states.
To be specific, feeling an emotion also means getting out of oneself
and to get into another elsewhere, consequently, it indicates an
inner dynamic, that from the intimate sphere can be expressed and
exposed in a more or less loud and conscious way. However, for
this exact word case, any definition might be considered fluid and
open.
The third and last term I want to consider here is communication.
It is of Latin derivation too, with reference to the verb
‘communicare’, and was initially used to indicate the transmission
of quality, energy, movement, and the sharing by a subject of her/
his property, charge, privilege etc., so that these become the
dowry for others. From here it came to the idea that
communicating is about the diffusion of a thought, the result of a
research, a feeling, a story, news, with subsequent participation in
them.
Interesting in order to grasp more deeply the meaning of the word,
is the reference to the neutral noun contained in it, that is ‘munus,
-neris’, with its twofold meaning of public office and gift. The
presence of the preposition ‘cum’ (communis) brings up the idea
that the concept of equal and bidirectional exchange belongs to
the very meaning of the term itself.
At least from a linguistic point of view, this legacy is evident and
perhaps important to underline and safeguard, since, as we all
know and experience, the political expediences and the
sociological superstructures can alter the purity of the actuation of
the communicative process through more or less stated forms of
control and indoctrination.
These three terms are central in the development of this short
writing since, in addition to determining the arguments to be
touched upon, their correlation allows and leads to the illustration
of my position.
Specifically, communicating, in its broad meaning as mentioned
above, has a prominent role within the digital sphere that is to be
considered here as the cradle of the transmission and propagation
of content and information between two or more individuals across
today’s ‘global village’
In fact, with all the blessings and curses of the case, it is true and
established that nowadays “to live fully in the present means to be
in constant communication: the self as a network.”4
As far as emotions are concerned, I will attempt to investigate how
digital communication and therefore a devoid physical contact,
enhances and includes the affective dimension of the subjects
involved, and how emotions’ nature set up a participatory action
that unfolds beyond our screens, influencing our personal bonds.
Moreover, what is worthwhile to emphasize here, is that precisely
the emotion, in its meaning of going out of oneself to enter another
elsewhere, might be closely related to the digital, which represents
both the medium through which much of the communication takes
place and this ‘other space’ where the communicator is projected
and where she/he finds the other, making, therefore, the office or
the gift (munus) of ones own presence visible and sharable.
Eventually, it might be also newsworthy to point out how the term
digital originally referred in a broad sense to the fingers, and
consequently to the haptic sense, while today it is associated with
the idea of intangibility. In this regard, it is precisely through the
occurrence and flow of emotions that the digital is to be seen more
palpable than one might sustain in the first place, at least in the
consequences, effects and above all in its potentials.
Living Post-Digitally
In order to better contextualize the topics to be dealt with, it is
essential in this part to refer to the current state and the reality
within which some of the positions that will be taken into
consideration are developing.
The digital, together with its implications and derivations, is now an
integral part of our lives, not only because of the total expansion
and diffusion that is it’s own but because today it finds itself
ingrained in our very existence.
In this regard, the term post-digital mentioned above has taken
over to designate the present time. By it, it is meant: “a neologism
that contains, in the prefix "post", a normalization, more than an
overcoming, of changes and technological innovations. The postdigital
condition presupposes the digital revolution, but taking it for
granted.”
It is today well established that the digital is a deep-rooted
phenomenon, fluid but easily identifiable at the same time, and not
just a recent innovation. It is, therefore, necessary to keep on
reflecting on the impact that technologies have on lives of
individuals, with the awareness that the Net is no longer a
dimension detached from the physical world, but is an extension of
reality itself as its effects are absolutely tangible and expanded, so
much so that perception and social relations are also greatly
affected.
As Hito Steyerl claims, the Internet “crossed the screen, multiplied
displays, transcended networks and cables to be at once inert and
inevitable. […] We might be unplugged, but this doesn’t mean
we’re off the hook. The Internet persists offline as a mode of life,
surveillance, production and organization […].”6
Quoting also the Italian art historian and curator Lorenzo Giusti:
“The web is no longer a virtual zone, an alternative to reality, as it
was defined for a long time, but a concrete place in its own right,
an extension of the world, an actual dimension on par with the
other spaces in which we live.”
The digital, as an ascertained presence and mindset, is involved
even when not directly addressed. It has penetrated nearly all the
contemporary structures influencing the logic underlying them. We
can then refer to it as that ‘subterranean presence’, borrowing the
words of Claire Bishop8, which acts even when it is not visible and
not explicit precisely because of its ubiquitous nature.
The Internet has, therefore, not just offered devices capable of
supporting and guiding human beings in the performance of
specific functions, but rather has influenced the way individuals
think, see, sense and behave, their ability to relate to each other,
and has showed how an essential and vital part, the
communicative one, changes continuously, adapting or resisting
the emerging dynamics. In other words: “The post-digital
describes the embeddedness of the digital in the objects, images,
and structures we encounter on a daily basis and the way we
understand ourselves in relation to them.”9
Another way through which it is possible to name the phenomenon
illustrated here is by using the locution digital condition, as
proposed by Felix Stalder in his homonymous book The digital
condition. He refers to it as an “enormous proliferation of cultural
possibilities.”10, extending further its meaning by illustrating its
development both at a historical level and towards its social,
political and economic significance and implications.
According to Stalder, the term ‘condition’ “[…] designate[s] a
cultural condition whereby the processes of social meaning - that
is, the normative dimension of existence - are explicitly or implicitly
negotiated and realized by means of singular and collective
activity”11; he also points out that “[…] far from being a symbolic
accessory or mere overlay, culture directs our actions and gives
shape to society.”12 To put another way, culture is seen in this
regard as something fluid and hybrid, as a field subject to
continuous renegotiation, and characterized by alternating
dynamics of dissolution and reconstitution by the subjects acting
within it, with the aim of giving form to shared meanings and
identity determinations.
Within this scenario, media are intended as relational technologies
that support the creation of significance and shaping of culture, the
digital thus “denotes the set of relations that, on the infrastructural
basis of digital networks, is realized today […] in the constitution
and coordination of personal and collective activity.”13
Specifically, the term digital is associated by Stalder with the term
condition since it “refers to historically new possibilities for
constituting and connecting various […] actors, which is not limited
to digital media but rather appears everywhere as a relational
paradigm that alters the realm of possibility […].”14 He then adds
that his understanding of digital could be considered close to the
concept of post-digital described above, by stressing the fact that
the digital with its pervasiveness and consolidation has extended
far beyond the digital media, appearing and materializing in more
and more contexts through an ongoing process. Stalder, in fact,
states as follows: “the digital condition has become quotidian and
dominant. It forms a cultural constellation that determines all area
of life […]”15, underlining that what the Internet provided has been
the widening of the horizons of debate, through an increased
volume of information flow and the proliferation of positions
produced. This has very practical implications because it opens up
the possibility of outlining alternatives to existing conditions, and
involves a transformative potential for how individuals relate and
act in the world.
This is true precisely because the media were and are conceived
as environments in which one could act directly, namely because
they are a constituent element of reality and not just means
supporting its depiction.
He continues by illustrating the three patters with which the digital
condition takes shape in the contemporary environment.
‘Referentiality’ is the first one and is to be intended as “a method
with which individuals can inscribe themselves into cultural
processes and constitute themselves as producers. Understood
as shared social meaning, the arena of culture entails that such an
undertaking cannot be limited to the individual. Rather, it takes
place within a larger framework whose existence and development
depend on communal formations.”
The idea of ‘communality’ is the second form taken into
consideration, since the individual as a social being - for the
creation of meaning to be recognized, reinforced and validated and
thus to ensure the development what we can call culture -, needs
the exchange with others.
The third and last point is the one of ‘algorithmicity’ which, by
using Stalder’s words “denotes those aspects of cultural
processes that are (pre-)arranged by the activities of machines.
Algorithms transform the vast quantities of data and information
that characterize so many facets of present-day life into scales and
formats that can be registered by human perception. […] Yet, the
very same algorithms influence our understanding and activity in an
ambivalent way. They create new dependencies by pre-sorting and
making the (informational) world available to us, and,
simultaneously, shape our agency by providing preconditions that
enable us to act.”
The aspect - or pattern - that seems to be more interesting for the
purposes of this essay is the second one because communication,
intended as a mutual exchange oriented towards the
establishment both of the singular and collective individuals’
identity, lays in those ‘communal formation’ and their framework.
And if, on the one hand, emotions, since they belong to the
psychological dimension of the human being, might be difficult to
observe and unreliable to decipher empirically, on the other it is
true that social media - space par excellence of nowadays
communication and connection - are fully-fledged emotional
media. So it might not be wrong to say that this emotional
mediated exchange and propagation produces effects on the
already existing or potential aggregative and cultural formations.
Furthermore, according to recent cultural theory, the affective
dimension has prominent importance in our information-based
society19 since today we live and engage with each other through
affective alliances that allow us to develop a sense of belonging
and identification
The affective alliances are meant as those practices, cultural forms
and social experiences that predispose the subjects to an affective
investment in the world. This is what is going to be partially
addressed in the following chapter.
Being social, being emotional
To enter the discourse on emotions I intend to refer to the
conception of these as theorized by the scholar Sarah Ahmed in
her book The Cultural Politics of Emotion.
She argues that emotions are not merely psychological states,
rather cultural and relational practices that how it is possible to
speak about ‘sociality’ of them.
According to her, the idea that emotions are the presumption of
interiority with an ‘inside-out’ process - as psychology claims - is to
be overcome, so as the reverse logic of ‘outside-in’ asserted by
sociologists and anthropologists who affirm that the origin of
feeling itself comes from without. Emotions are not something that
a single individual or a social group of individuals ‘have’, rather
something that is established in its making. Quoting her words
“emotions create the very effect of the surfaces and boundaries
that allow us to distinguish an inside and an outside in the first
place. [….] it is through emotions, or how we respond to objects
and others, that surfaces or boundaries are made: the ‘I’ and the
‘we’ are shaped by, and even take the shape of, contact with
others.”21 She continues: “emotions are crucial to the very
constitution of the psychic and the social as objects, a process
which suggests that the ‘objectivity’ of the psychic and social is an
effect rather than a cause. In other words, emotions are not ‘in’
either the individual or the social, but […] allow the individual and
the social to be delineated as if they are objects.”22
Following this logic, therefore, the circulation of emotions is a
central point in her argument.
Emotions are all moving, as the etymology of the word itself
mentioned at the beginning of this paper suggests. Attachment
and connection with others take place through movement and at
the same time ‘being moved’ is the very effect of emotions.
Furthermore, Ahmed questions the lack of attention towards
emotions in the critique field, since they are fundamental to
understand the investment of individuals in particular structures
and play an important role in the process of world-making, by
proposing “a model emotion that involves subjects but is not
reducible to them.”23 Emotions are described as ‘doing things’
because they concern intentionality and contribute to shaping the
common social space. Thus, “emotions are material rhetoric - they
have affective power and can dictate our modes of life. In fact, they
are gateways into the social and material world.”24
This understanding of emotions as social agents seems particularly
relevant also within the social media environment and in general
the spaces offered by digital. They have transformed and continue
to mould everyday life, being places where the relational dimension
is fostered and where emotional flows, as well as the sense of
belonging and recognition, are constructed, so determining
“culture-specific communities of affective practice”25 and leading to
what is called digital affect cultures.
Starting from the assumption that culture is also organized through
communication, and that emotions are an integral part of both the
cultural and communicative process as they are closely linked to
social issues, it seems fundamental to include them within a
reflection on mediatization, that “unique discursive space where
participation and orientation are guided by emotional interaction
chains”26 the digital realm represents. Moreover, individuals’
engagement and participation on social media are affective-driven
since at the heart of all this is a perhaps this obvious but vital point:
“humans need social affiliation and strive for belonging to social
groups.”
Besides, following this train of thought, emotion is considered both
as a “discursively constructed cultural practice”28 and a contextual,
fluid and relational performance able to give rise and shape online
communities, intended as social constellations. The distinction
between online and offline places and dynamics is however not
central to the development of this essay, as they are embedded in
each other and mutually constitutive. At the same time, “it is worth
considering how these spaces […] might foster divergent
conditions for emotional resonance among distant individuals and
how the technological affordances of new media facilitate the
speed of dispersion of emotion as well as help construct alliances
of emotional and relational congruence.”
Considering emotion and affect as cultural actors, despite the
different meanings between the two terms that have been raised
over time, it allows us to go beyond the personal, intimate and
closed sphere of the individual, suggesting how these are
something people do and not something people merely have, as
also claimed by Ahmed.
This implies that, as within all cultural constructs and social life in
general, also within digital affect cultures - intended as unique
platforms of exchange -, power relations might emerge, by
exposing conditions where certain emotional scenarios are
prevalent compared to others, also through the presence of
affective sub-cultures and with the unveiling of relationships of
respective dependence, belonging, alignment or even conflict,
disagreement and un-recognition among the actors involved.30
In addition, and regarding the link between communication and
emotions along the process of meaning-making, it’s been said that
“affective practice is a moment of recruitment, articulation or
enlistment when many complicated flows across bodies,
subjectivities, relations, histories and contexts entangle and
intertwine together to form just this affective moment, episode or
atmosphere with its particular possible classifications.”31
To summarize what has been proposed so far, it can be stated that
“digital affect culture is shaped by the social sharing of culturally
and discursively constructed emotions”32 and that “such emotional
resonance may occur on an interpersonal or a global scale”33,
since different levels of engagement, perspective and negotiation
are possible and intertwined.
Cultivating and further investigating these topics could lead to valid
insights for a better understanding of the emotional landscape that
emerges in the web, not so much to define its precise effects, but
rather to reveal its mechanisms and potential.
Transparent dystopia and beyond
If at the dawn of the phenomenon that could be seen as the digital
flood there was the idea that, although with some inevitable
reservations, the digitalization and the Net would have been
guarantees of democracy and freedom of expression, and
therefore not subjected to ideological, political and economic
control or surveillance, today scepticism is a widespread and also
validated feeling, and it leads to a less disillusioned approach so
that the advantages conveyed by these platforms and structures
often appear to be overshadowed by their critical issues.
Issues that, if not uncovered and properly contrasted, are
supposed to impact irreversibly on the psychological and
sociological portrait of individuals who, in the most apocalyptic
visions, are seen as passive entities at the mercy of tyrannical
technologies.
31 Margaret Wheterell, as cited by Katrin Döveling, Anu A. Harju, and
Denise Sommer in From Mediatized Emotion to Digital Affect Cultures:
New Technologies and Global Flows of Emotion,
Among others, the philosopher Byung-Chul Han proposes a
strongly distrustful and critical position towards digital in its broader
sense.
In his book In the Swarm: Digital Prospects he states, concisely
but eloquently, as follows: “The public sphere presupposes, among
other things, that one respectfully distracts one's gaze from the
private sphere: distancing oneself is constitutive of public space.
Today, on the contrary, a total absence of distance dominates, in
which intimacy is displayed and the private becomes public. [...]
Digital communication in general reduces distances; the reduction
of spatial distances is linked to the erosion of mental distances.
The mediality of digital is harmful for respect.”34
He claims that especially nowadays social networks and digital
communication itself, lead to a pornographic display of individuals’
intimacy, resulting in excessive and totalizing exposure of the
private sphere. Such a dynamic can only lead to absolutely
pernicious effects.
The perpetual connection and limitless communication that unfolds
online erase the concept of respect itself undermining the very idea
of power. Power not in terms of domination or ideology, but as that
virtue of authority that seems to be crumbling due to the
supremacy that now belongs to the crowd. A concept, that of the
crowd, intended substantially as a shapeless aggregation
incapable of acting, which the philosopher translates with the term
‘swarm’, as suggested by the title of his book.
Social media, and the digital, are thus demonized because of their
effects and modes of operating. They represent the container of a
collective magma in which ideas, thoughts and contents seem to
be governed and even exploited by external forces. Populated by
individuals without a personality and will of their own, mere emitters
of unconscious judgments, superficial behaviours and meaningless
inputs, social media are considered as places highly exposed to
the risk of a counterproductive contagion propelled by the
multitude.
Han also argues that the digital swarm, which evolved as a
consequence of the homonymous revolution, is a cluster of
individuals devoid of depth, awareness and even souls, as it is
composed of many passive entities that only share the lack of a
collective feeling.
The ‘digital being’ would therefore not be part of a group able to
act synergistically for the meaning-making, but rather would
cultivate and perpetuate his own singularity by stagnating in a
condition of self-isolation in which, as a user, simply linger in front
of a screen. Furthermore, according to the philosopher, these
swarms would be fleeting and susceptible to sudden vanishing.
A phenomenon, this one of disappearance and dissolution,
triggered by the lack of tactility and materiality proper to the digital.
In fact, the philosopher claims that the absence of corporeity we
experience within communication through the Net is leading to a
growing detachment of humans from reality itself. This would
undermine our ability to relate to each other, increasingly
impoverishing relationships and making them sterile in
introspection.
In his utmost dystopian vision, Han comes to state that the man of
the future will be incapable of taking action and reacting precisely
because of this use/abuse of digital tools and total immersion and
dependence on them.
Alongside the concept of digital swarm is also the idea of loss of
identity by the individuals belonging to contemporary society,
which Han defines as transparent in the earlier work entitled The
Transparency Society.
According to the author, we are witnessing the extinction of
privacy, the disappearance of intimacy, profundity and ponderate
thinking, in favour of the global homologation due to the complete
exposure of the subjects who use digital technological devices. In
other words, we are living within a universe in which openness to
the outside world is only apparent, a world that generates
flattening instead of growth, regression instead of progress,
making us transparent in the sense of insubstantial.
Han argues: “The Transparency Society is a Hell of the Same. [...]
Transparency is a systemic coercion that involves all social
processes and subjects them to profound mutation. The social
system today exposes all its processes to an obligation of
transparency in order to standardize them [...]. Transparency
stabilizes and accelerates the system by eliminating the Other or
the Extraneous.”
The exasperated visibility identified by his thought would contain in
itself a form of violence, since responsible for reducing man to a
mere “functional element of a system.”37
Such a society can also be conceived as a ‘society of exposure’, a
reality in which only what is exhibited is under consideration, with
the ultimate aim of taking into account only its first economic value,
and in which we dwell mainly on phenomena determined by a
volatile interest, certainly not by the desire for care and attention to
their very essence.
Transparency is, moreover, a symmetrical condition that excludes
and denies any asymmetry and therefore diversity, that leads to
absolute clarity and proximity, thus stifling fantasy, imagination and
distance; it precludes the unveiling process because it makes
everything immediately accessible, it leaves nor room for the
indefinable neither to contemplation, it levels and empties, inducing
hegemonic attitudes of surveillance and indoctrination.
Ultimately, according to Han: “The obligation of transparency
erases the smell of things, the smell of time. Transparency does
not smell. Transparent communication, which no longer admits
anything indefinite, is obscene. [...] ‘immediate enjoyment’ is
incapable of beauty. [...] The momentary sparkle of the spectacle,
of the immediate stimulus, is not beautiful, but the silent
shimmering, the phosphorescence of time.”38
What is currently happening seems, thus, to be the reconfiguration
of the reality in which the human being lives and of his own identity.
With the pervasiveness of technologies, in fact, everyone’s
personality and essence would be subject to a persistent
repositioning, due to the rapid advancement of the web.
Identity and also culture are not perceived as a set of fixed and
certain features, but as a constantly evolving processes with fluid,
changeable and fragile traits.
All this would lead, as a further consequence, to the
disappearance of passions, drives and emotions based on a
sharing with the other, and above all of love itself, as argues by
Han in The Agony of Eros. The crisis of love - Eros - derives in fact
“from the erosion of the Other. This erosion is occurring in all
spheres of life; its corollary is the mounting narcissification of the
Self. In fact, the vanishing of the Other is a dramatic process -
even though, fatefully enough, it largely escapes notice. Eros
concerns the Other in the strong sense, namely, what cannot be
encompassed by the regime of the ego. Therefore, in the Hell of
the Same, which contemporary society is increasingly becoming,
erotic experience does not exist. Erotic experience presumes the
asymmetry and exteriority of the Other.”39
According to him, love, in all its forms and understood as a
movement towards the other, has become ineffective and affectfree,
it is reduced to instant pornography characterized by
inexpressiveness, so ceasing to be profound narration.
The dissolution of Eros, a sentiment that according to the
philosopher would also be at the root of political action and
momentum constituting a source of energy for the construction of
different scenarios, makes it impossible to exist a synergic
coexistence and empowerment.
The damaging and almost evil side of the digital condition or, as
has been said, of the post-digital phenomenon emerges here with
all its might. The choice fell on Han's position and statements
precisely because of the peremptoriness of his theoretical
approach. His argument, even if agreeable in many of its facets
and certainly useful to shed light on the dynamics unraveling in
today's world, wants to be considered here as a base for a
reflection that wants to make use of these negative traits as pivotal
cues towards a potential different path.
At this point, it might be worth to briefly mention Omar Kholeif's
approach which, at the end of his book Goodbye, World! Looking
at Art in the Digital Age, states that, far from perceiving and
considering the digital realm as utopian and lacking in criticality, it is
rather desirable “to create our own environments where we
individually optimize its functionality and, in turn, our very
existence”40 so to not be swallowed up from that state devised by
late capitalism called ‘techonophoria’, a scenario where art is
doomed to lose “in a perpetual catch-up game, always behind the
latest techno-cultural development.”41 In Kholeif’s opinion, “in order
to embrace technology, we must be able to see it” so that we
can repurpose it eventually, to make the most of its potential and
to unite and constructively engage with the impending future.
Leaving us behind the assumption that “physical, rather than
virtual, experience is more authentic”43 and considering this as a
misaligned form of judgment, what I aim to stress here is the
intrinsically human side of the intangible universe that is the
Internet. Therefore I would like to consider a mutual hybridization
between the physical and virtual spheres, without nor resulting in
the demonization of technological tools - too often accused of
debasing the essence of what they convey - neither concealing the
evidence of an urgency that lies underneath.
The cases studies I’m going to observe in the following paragraph
are intended as a first step towards the consciousness-raising of
such an assertion.
Networks’ Intimacy, towards the iridescent trust.
Case Studies
The first case study I would like to look into is the work of the
Athens based artist and researcher Kyriaki Goni who deals with
different media, by focusing “on the relations and interactions
between technology and society, bringing in dialogue the local and
the global perspective. [Investigating] through expanded
installations and narration […] subjects such as power of
information, perception and construction of the digital self,
alternative infrastructures and alternative networks as well as
human machine interaction.”44
Specifically, I’m going to take into consideration her work entitled
Network of Trust, part of the project named The Eternal Network
held at Haus der Kulturen der Welt in Berlin from January to March
2020 during Transmediale, the annual festival on art and digital
culture.

The Eternal Network was a group exhibition about the persistence
of networks, intended as ever-present technical, relational and
social forms, with a particular focus on their limits and potentials
within the current moment in time. The title comes from the
concept coined by Fluxus artist Robert Filliou with reference to the
new forms of exchange and interaction within the global world
enabled by emerging means of communication, with the aim to
open up possible futures besides networks themselves.
The exhibition presented several works linked by the attempt to
move beyond the role of networks so to re-engage differently in
today’s critical entanglements between humans and technology.
The curatorial statement claimed as follows: “In times of
environmental and political turmoil, networks have lost their mass
appeal and are the subject of widespread backlash: blackouts,
propaganda, hate speech, addiction, and a human desire to
disintermediate from the platforms of surveillance capitalism. Still,
networks are ubiquitous, and thus both the poison and cure for the
act of organizing within activism and politics alike. With the now
more tangible limits of networks in mind, the exhibition asks how
effectively they respond to future models of sociality, technology,
and politics.”
Network of Trust is a work from 2019 and consists of a digital
network that explores the archipelagic infrastructures located in the
Aegean sea and broader Mediterranean, with the aim to unfold
notions of connectivity and insularity and with reference to
networks’ long tradition in that area.
It is a multi-part installation, made up of three network nodes
running IPFS46 technology, few drawings, an audio recording in
the Greek language with English subtitles, a website, some prints
and flags.
The InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) is a protocol and peer-to-peer
network for storing and sharing data in a distributed file system. IPFS
allows users to not only receive but host content. As opposed to a
centrally located server, IPFS is built around a decentralized system of
user-operators who hold a portion of the overall data, creating a resilient
system of file storage and sharing. Any user in the network can serve a
file by its content address, and other peers in the network can find and
request that content from any node who has it.
The work starts from the assumption that the presence of
networks in the Aegean archipelago in Greece has ancient origins
but still lingers on today, and that the specific topography and
geography of insularity is a condition which combines connection
and isolation at the same time.
Remarkably significant is the piece An oral story about networks of
trust, the voice recording narrating about the oral tradition of the
Aegean area, offering an imaginative arbitrary plot about the origins
of the networks and archipelagic infrastructures in the region.
In this context, the Aegean area is conceived as a possible model
for a new decentralization, that’s why an offline network is set with
one node on the small island of Tilos, the second one in Athens
and a third nomadic. This last one is been presented as part of the
installation in the above-mentioned exhibition and visitors were
invited to connect to it, as to the other two in their specific
locations, through their devices during the visit time so to upload
realistic or imaginative short stories about possible futures for the
Aegean and the Mediterranean. The texts and contributions are
hosted on the node and are accessible to everyone with the final
aim to build a shared storage of possibility in the world-making.
Signing in to the node and participating means then leaving a mark
of one’s story and make it available for a collective purpose.
The exact description of the network is depicted in the drawing,
part of the installation, entitled A diagram about networks of trust.
Using fiction as a method for community building, the artist
proposes a way to rethink the past, present, and future of
networks.
Particularly relevant for the purpose of this essay, is the final part of
piece An oral story about networks of trust. Here an excerpt:
“Gradually all the members of the group started to alter their
structure. To survive on the fragments, you have to be a fragment
yourself. […] Adaptation is the word, it said and it continued
narrating: Adaptation. Somehow, through adaptation to the new
fragmented situation, the networks were born. These invisible
threads, which hold the fragments together, connected and joined
in dynamic balances, for pure survival reasons. How can
something that was already united, be separated? Networks rerecord
the memory of the pre-existing connection. […] After a few
minutes, as if rousing itself from lethargy, it spoke again:
Connection and Survival. For long time after us, other groups have
been taking up the work of creating links and networks. They all,
sooner or later, understood that connecting was the only way to
survive. If you were not connected, you would die. The prehistory
and history of this region, was based on networks. They defined
and continue to define the wider territory. There is an ongoing
conversation between the nodes. If you are quiet, you will hear it.
You will always be hearing, this lasting conversation over the
waves, of the archipelago.”
By using the archipelago as a metaphor for the community, Kyriaki
Goni focuses on the relationship between humanity and
technology and specifically on the concept of network, namely the
structure where communal dynamics take place. While many past
and current discourses regarding the relation between humanity,
technology and the digital, push us to a condition of ever increased
and omnipresent connection with each other, the artist’s vision of
networks aims to retain the individual within the larger group, just
like the island-archipelago relationship from which Network of Trust
takes form.48 Through her work, the ease enacted by today’s
culture by demanding an excess of sharing - showing in return
evanescence and merely utilitarian purposes -, is confronted with
an ancestral idea of locality, the topos, represented by both the
individual and the island. Network of trust, thus, by proposing an
alternative way of benefit from the network’s structure and
suggesting a method to build new ones based on trust and
awareness, is to be seen as reaction and opposition to how
world’s largest corporations profit from our information, memories
and above all feelings.
This lays at the very root of the artist’s main intent during her
creative process, Kyriaki, in fact, states: “The starting point of my
works are very emotional. It’s not a research curiosity that drives
me but an ‘emotional trigger.’ My topics are ones that I’m moved
by as a person, as a human being, living right now; not as a
‘researcher.’ For example, my recent works have focused on
observing technology and how it’s connected to society. I want to
understand how these processes affect me, and then how they are
shaping the way we all live, perceive, and express our emotions.”
In relation to what has been said so far, this work expresses the
need and, at the same time, the possibility of inhabiting the web by
conveying emotions, understood as ‘doing things’ that might be
able to contribute to the construction of a common social space
from which both the community and the individual can benefit.
New scenarios can, therefore, be thought of as a potential
consequence of adherence to these participatory dynamics that
have a past history as a model and whose value they want to
recover in order to reintroduce it in a renewed way in the current
era, precisely the post-digital one, by cultivating “a collective
narration at the bridge between ancient oral traditions and
contemporary internet culture.”50
As a second case study, I want to take into consideration the short
essay entitled Iridescence, Intimacies, written by Tavi Meraud and
published in e-flux Journal in 2015. Within it, the artist suggests
how intimacy organizes our experience of space and relation to the
on-going development of the concept of surfaces.
Specifically, it is analyzed the concept of ‘iridescence’, which at a
scientific level is an optical phenomenon originating from the
encounter and interference of light waves on a surface and having
as a consequent effect the simultaneous manifestation of multiple
colours.
This is used to introduce the relationship that unfolds today
between real and virtual, a scintillating process in which the
surface, to be understood as the point of contact between these
two dimensions, is represented by the screen. A surface that is not
to be considered as a concrete and monolithic barrier or limit, but
rather as a site for dazzling, iridescent encounters. Namely,
iridescence is “a demonstration of a particular interior-exterior
negotiation that ultimately results in a suspension of the
appearance-reality distinction”51, a phenomenon in which one
witnesses a shift “towards a heterotopic convergence of images
with different degrees of reality”52. Iridescence thus, allows us to
designate of the surface not as a boundary, but as a shining site
where multiplicities can appear and a constellation of realities show
themselves just as the vibrant juxtaposition of different colours
generated by the very optical effect.
The artist continues by claiming that in our experience of being in
the world, we are constantly negotiating between real and unreal,
all the more so now with the omnipresence of digital as an integral
part of our lives, and this might even entail this distinction has
almost collapsed.
Both the two dimensions, to be seen as layers or precisely a
surfaces, suggest an idea of locality, “a point of experiential
densification” within which relations, negotiations and processes
of recognition have continually been conducted.
The concept of surface, since it alludes as we said to contact,
discovery and proximity, is closely related to that of intimacy,
namely the feeling to be deeply connected to another person or
event.
What we experience through the surface of the screen, and which
comes to life starting from the communicative process, is the entry
into the interiority of virtuality, not to be understood as an
inauthentic dimension compared to the real given that today we
could say with no doubt that it resides in it.
Going further, Meraud states that “if the superficial is itself a
collation of so many layers, then intimacy would insist that it goes
beyond these layers. Intimacy seems to insist on a realer real than
the apparently given. Intimacy purports to access the realer real. If,
then, the surface is already an issue of negotiating between the
real and the apparent, what would the realer real mean here—to
settle on the suspension between reality and appearance?
Intimacy may apparently be an insistence precisely on the
distinction in order to get to the depths of something, that is,
insisting that the surface is merely superficial.”54
The intuition here is to reconsider the logic of intimacy, as the
fundamental trigger and need for the identification and exploration
of the real itself. Intimacy would allow one to break through these
surfaces, to the point of touching what is beyond them and which
represents their very heart and core, a dimension that could be
called ‘inner virtuality’. Thus, “intimacy becomes the drive towards
palpating, recognizing, appropriating these heterotopic regions”55,
this might lead us towards the necessity of conceptualizing anew
the idea of touch and haptic.
For this reason, at the conclusion of the essay, the artist introduces
and proposes the term transintimacy, an enhanced intimacy, which
includes the spectrum of feeling growing and spreading through
screens. This phenomenon is to be considered iridescent, so as to
avoid the flatness that is often mentioned to describe the
relationships faulty of physical contact, those that unfold online for
instance.
Iridescence is an exploratory and penetrating force, a property that
allows the positive aggregation of several elements in order to
express, bring out, enlighten the site of negotiation belonging to
virtuality and locating the real implied by this interiority.
Transintimacy is, therefore “love in a time of iridescence. A
transformed intimacy which goes beyond a mere rehearsal and
proselytization of haptology - ever negotiating surface as boundary
- but rather the iridescent mechanism of, or drive toward,
complicity or collusion with the very conditions of superficiality,
namely the stereoscopic (perhaps even polyscopic) probing for the
real. It is not the conquest of the superficial that we seek in
intimacy, but rather the innermost chamber of reality. The surface
becomes the locus where this is rehearsed.”56
The main idea is, therefore, that we are no longer tied to the sense
of touch as it is understood literally, merely as physical contact with
the other, but rather during the event of the encounter we are
emitters of interiority and we move through the emotional
iridescence of our own existence and essence.
This opens up a new conception of virtual/digital realm, as well as
of the very nature of the relations that have the potential to be
established in it and through which humans affect and alter each
other becoming proximate beings over time and space.
The reference to the etymology of the word emotion itself
highlighted at the beginning of this essay is still particularly
pertinent here. Getting out of oneself and to get into another
elsewhere can, therefore, be understood as that process of
breaking through surfaces in order to give rise to authentic and
deep connections and affective infrastructures that might support
and guide humans while navigating in the post-digital era.
Virtuality of a feeling, getting the signal anew
Over the centuries and decades, there have been profound
changes and evolutions in the forms, poetics, techniques and use
of the spaces destined to house the works of art. From the
expressions that can be traced back to the great and well knownmovements,
to the provocative acts of the most radical
tendencies, from the total dependence on the matter to the
necessary disappearance of all tangibility, up to the most recent
intuitions due to technological developments that have, somehow,
reconfigured the idea of what can be considered as art, its very
essence and the way of engaging into a dialogue with it.
The digital turn that has led to indisputable innovations and
experimentations, giving rise to creations sometimes daring
enough to be perceived as airtight and dumb, it has also evidently
opened the doors to possibilities that were previously perhaps
unthinkable.
This has unleashed a widespread and fervent enthusiasm, for
better or worse, towards what could be perceived as new, broad
and infinite, almost as if what happened before was to be
overcome, in a blind run-up to everything that seems to be still
waiting for us. But it has also, on the other hand, triggered
opposite reactions in those who have preferred to look back and
remain anchored to previous visions and approaches, even
through with dystopian and debasing predictions.
These reflections are not intended to be dispersive digressions,
since they were starting points for the development of the present
paper and I, therefore, consider it appropriate to mention them in
its conclusion.
The attention paid at the attempt to provide a reading to the above
phenomena, led me to the conviction, however fluid this one
hopefully remains, that, even what seems to be more distant from
the emotional sphere of the human being, namely technology in a
broader sense because of its very nature, is actually moved by a
desire for relationship, action, communication and proximity - as
my understanding of Sara Ahmed perspective has suggested.
These needs, without wanting to be blind to all the resulting
harmful contradictions and unquestionably urgent implications, can
be emphasized, enhanced and increased by the Net system and
its potential.
That condition of becoming transparent, as defined by Han, in my
opinion, does not necessarily make humans passive and helpless
entities, but rather offers an opportunity to be consciously
responsive towards an all-encompassing contact with the world.
Being transparent could stand for being touched, traversed by life,
and welcome it. In other words, there’s a potential to intervene
within a dimension that appears intangible, by transforming it into
living and malleable material, a place where new mechanisms can
be triggered and developed, challenging the very meaning of
democracy and freedom and assuming that there is no point in
disregarding technology itself, but rather in being aware of what
agenda it serves.
The choice fell on the two case studies proposed in the previous
chapter might suggest a demonstration of this idea, albeit still
partial and questionable.
Central in my position is the desire to emphasize that crave for
humanity, intended as a condition and quality, that within the digital
dimension seems to be lost in favour of dispersion-oriented
practices, but of which, in turn, it is possible to offer an intimately
involving reading. This is related to the intentions, if not
misunderstood, contained in Kyriaki Goni's work, and aims at
responding to that marginalization, that estrangement and
indolence of which the web environment is often charged,
accentuating instead its relational, social and proactive character.
As Lee Mackinnon58 stated “[…] we must be mindful that we don’t
lose sight of our humanity in all this talk of agency of objects and
technical systems - that we are still be spoken for authored, even if
we lose ourselves in the sublime elsewhere of endlessly ramifying
data streams.”59
What I’d like to point out here is that we should not see the
emotional sphere that unfolds in the digital, as result of calculations
and algorithms, as mere computation, but rather let these traits
support us while accessing the complexity of that iridescent and
sharable intimacy Tavi Meraud speaks about.
The switch to be made is to awaken our awareness, by keeping
this computational character in the hands both of individual users
and collectivity, so to prevent us from being instrumentalized data.
Hito Steyerl, in a recent essay entitled Cut! Reproduction and
Recombination, talks about the mechanism of postproduction, a
concept made known by the art critic Nicolas Bourriaud60. This
concept is borrowed from the cinematographic field where it
indicates all the cutting, editing, mixing and reassembly actions
that take place in order to give shape to the narration on film.
Steyerl argues that the impact of this process today goes far
beyond the cinematic media itself and that, with digital
technologies, this is part of our everyday life as a way through
which we inhabit, approach and interpret the world.
Stalder also talks about this tendency in terms of ‘referentiality’
within the digital condition, defining it as a technique that makes
use “of materials that are already equipped with meaning - as
opposed to so-called raw material - to create new meanings.”61
The present paper might be considered a product of such a
practice as well.
Coming back to Steyerl, postproduction is a potentially endlessly
state through we are enabled to cut, modify, juxtapose, multiply,
repeat, recycle, displace and renew the contents that reality
provides us, a way through which we reshape continuously the
scattered world we live in. She emphasizes that we should not
avoid or deny this state, but rather accept it so to break into it as a
collective act since new and alternative forms of life might arise by
cutting and editing.62 She even suggests to think of this
mechanism as a kiss, stating as follows: “A kiss is an event that is
shared and consists precisely of sharing, exchanging, and
happening in between bodies. It is an edit articulating affect in
ever-different combinations. It creates new junctions and forms
between and across bodies, a form that is ever shifting and
changing. A kiss is a moving surface, a ripple in time-space.
Endless reproductions of the same kiss: each one unique. A kiss is
a wager, a territory of risk, a mess. The idea of reproduction
condensed into a fleeting moment […] which moves across cuts,
from shot to shot, from frame to frame: linking and juxtaposing.
Across lips and digital devices. It moves by way of editing,
exquisitely flipping around the idea of the cut, redistributing affects
and desire, creating bodies joined by movement, love, pain.”63
In this sense, I would like to think of the post-digital as an
environment where both material reality and new imagery can take
shape, and although art that moves within this paradigm is
subjected to the rapid obsolescence of its tools and therefore to
transience, it needs to encourage a move toward bringing the
emotions back in the theoretical discourse around it.
At the very end of this essay, I would like to go back to Sara
Ahmed’s position and quote her words in reference to the
emotional sphere as the place where culture and collective feeling
are formed. She says: “Emotions tell us a lot about time; emotions
are the very ‘flesh’ of time. They show us the time it takes to move,
or to move on, is a time that exceeds the time of an individual life.
Through emotions, the past persists on the surface of bodies.
Emotions show us how histories stay alive, even when they are not
consciously remembered […] The time of emotion is not always
about the past, and how it sticks. Emotions also open up futures,
in the ways they involve different orientations to others. It takes
time to know what we can do with emotion. Of course, we are not
just talking about emotions when we talk about emotions. The
objects of emotions slide and stick and they join the intimate
histories of bodies, with the public domain of justice and injustice.
Justice is not simply a feeling. And feelings are not always just. But
justice involves feelings, which move us across the surfaces of the
world, creating ripples in the intimate contours of our lives. Where
we go, with these feelings, remains an open question.”64
It is true that, within the digital, our researches and inputs are
under surveillance, our preferences and choices seem to be
oriented by someone else, our data are tools to build visibility for
capitalistic purposes, our virtual identities have escaped our
control, our awareness is threatened by the fascinating force of the
unlimited possibilities that the web seems to guarantee, and our
intimacy has been re-located, therefore it is not the intention of this
short essay to refuse these considerations.
My final point is although centred around that idea that
experiencing a human and emotional touch within a field that is
often considered exploitative, unreliable and soulless and that we
think subordinated to ‘techno-supremacy’, might allow us,
perpetual users, not to lose contact with reality or end up
becoming digital ghosts floating unconsciously in the magmatic
environment of false algorithmic promises and virtual illusions. In
doing so we go back to the true meaning of the word
communication, and therefore it might be advisable to consider our
affective exchange as that ‘munus’ - and so the gift - the
etymology of the of the term itself indicates us.
The wish is that such a perspective, namely considering networks
as a social concept first and foremost, might offer us, breathing
creatures behind the screen, the potential not to lose the signal,
but rather to create new and alternative ones; so to switch from a
‘lost signal’ condition marked by bewilderment to a ‘post signal’
one, as the title itself of this paper suggest, by making of that postan
enhancement of our identity beyond the wires, those veins
pulsing beneath the skin of our contemporaneity.