
Act 1: In these deserted dunes and deserted paths, I sleep and my surface gets tired. I dream things that neither I nor anyone else knows what they might be. Starting today, springs emerge from within me in liquid gestures that purify the false gold of sands and at night I understand how to sound like a word without meaning … People call this place my bed or where I am laying down to rest or: The Way by which no one goes. My length stretches out unnecessarily deep into lakes whose waters get lost among hollows left behind … My childhood hieroglyphics: rivers yellowed by bursts of pollen on their banks grow old here beyond hope … Here the rock rests but it remains uneasy because now nothing is even capable of scratching its sides, not even rough suitors who wandered here for fun beneath the setting sun and vainly labored wielding pickaxes made out of light as if making bricks for all eternity.

Act 2: My sluggish waters start calling to the coming darkness in sad voices, like those of cats crying out for no reason; my rivers shrink back from themselves and grow frightened of their currents … A girl called Night starts singing songs that hunger makes her sing. Faces rise up without bodies or eyes: That's what I am! Mountains weep with dead waterfalls and mountains of sand pile up along unreal beaches, beside oceans whose depths we don't know. When I retreat as far into myself as possible, I become aware only of the shadow cast by my faint splinters on which a distant moon triumphantly celebrates its white feast day. The second act is difficult or impossible … But each one decides his own style in life … What method can be used to describe the interweaving natural movement between the possibility that nothing happens nor any external change forces itself upon me? And how will it continue?

Act 3: renewed, new! I shake off shadows that cling to my body like swarms of tiny insects and at times I caress the fingers of ancient rivers … Rivers return through me hoary recollections in which their dreams are bursting open. Faced with all this splendor, whatever intimacy is left? What hour has secrets to reveal? Now it all reveals itself without any shadow of a sunset falling upon it or even penetrating beyond beneath the surface glinting with blue mica and between river strata full of sadnesses. The excess from so much light overflows like life liberating joyful braziers … My soul becomes open again and allows for everything to enter it: mowers who sweep across thick piles of silky grass whiter than the heart's slow murmur; streams echoing on complex steps down white stairways dating back centuries into the golden mist hovering around rooms occupied by children playing games; flights not plucked out but rather drawn forth by daytime doves cawing among trees already prayed over and dusted with many grains and ages past gone months chosen merely for having another name than today or tomorrow. Forgive me if you can these incoherent memories … If windows were flowers-all bright gravity!
