
Act 1: I lie on the sea's bed, which is hot, flat and sterile. I'm reborn in the green ash of aquatic plants, but at midday my skin inevitably boils up and dries out while a great silence fills me from within. I close myself off from both today and yesterday only because I need to exclude what can never be mine; upon foggy shores crabs crawl about following certain paths much like those by which birds pass through forests that have neither beginning nor end. -Silex mirabilis: The land feels its surface breaking down as if it were glass shattered at high speed. This new material takes form in spontaneous formations that fill blurred outlines set against an opaque horizon brimming with metals extracted by hand from subterranean depths together with placental residue long dead … Soil begins to precede water! What force caused this substitution?

Act 2: All moon, no smiles. I watch from afar what passes by along the winding paths above me. In this unquiet place movement seems diabolical and silence impenetrable-my foam of big pebbles accentuates these pathologies lost … The land's surface is being continually violated with dynamite, battering rams and bayonets, crudely violating its orificial saturnalia countless times! My petrifaction rich in succulent fluids: all oasis, no water … Crusts of organisms constitute enormous chains of superimposed fossils punctuated here and there by pathways laid straight through raised swords.

Act 3: Everything is calm here, at the center of my universe. A hot wind caresses me unceasingly with the fronds of inner monologues-my springs are liberated from all anxiety and clog up dead passages into dark labyrinths … The land rubs its rigid bristles seductively against sparkling dewdrops that seem to tremble in each valentine gesture veiled drums reecho these discreet nocturnalities … Libidinous silence plays upon this mute herd where some roam free within hidden canyons while others redisperse through reclusive cataclysms-forgotten glories whose only tomb is a persistent knavery or ancestral splendor! What ancient insult caused their downfall? - Neolithic corpses they inhabit mine: Crumbled pyramids asleep in the harmonious heat; silent animals roaming lost amongst feline tombs' sad remainders … That which was invented: I grew old without ever having lived … I rise from my beginnings but end up elsewhere. No beggars on evenings like this.
