
Act 1: I am formed by gravity. Gravity is made of millennia accumulated behind me, to the north and south, as deep valleys of sedimentary rock dredged from lands far away, piled here and transformed over millions more years into dolerite and gneiss flanks that rise up and hold me stable in this one bay. Above these rising rock landscapes are miles combined glacier ice: miles built out of pressure-tempered snow falling season after winter on those northern icefields where I have drawn the whole thickness down onto my mass for sixty or so centuries now – each winter adding another seasonal footfall to my body's depth; another twelve months condensed into compressed hollowed air spaces like tongues breathing frozen breath back into their open seasons above . . . ---- What drives the ice cannonades toward our shores? What holds them at bay? The harmonic convocation leaves room enough for reverie. Elsewhere (in other "geographical" variants) it is a violently modern excess that seizes nature with brutal hands: artificial noise assails its supernature, amplified radiation declutches its essence. 1n this act a spring lightness enables comparisons between opposing forces as well as harmonious syntheses: springs expose everything in vainly fleeing appearances . . .

Act 2: Sometimes at the height of summer a raven or two perches on my highest proglacial point and caws at the great cold Antarctic air. Nothing moves but katabatic winds rifling up from the vast, unnamed valleys far below . . . At those times nothing swims in my melt-water lakes other than halocline strata, greening, clogging zooplankton drifting insubstantially enough to be mistaken for phantoms when glimpsed by eye or lens within that water's prone densest bands: so stiff is I, therefore. ---- What drives these psychic hurricanes toward our shores? What holds them back? Under their floodlight mass poetry translates itself with striking solemnity into natural indications (branch of coral in air) joined again by springs and lullabies to this freezing unitarianism. Elsewhere it is turmoil, savagery and wild need that scatter about; act 3 turns against everything natura1 signifies without discrimination.

Act 3: !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! ! ! !!!!!!!!! My cry vibrates with fracturing ice particles and I let every vibration bounce from channel to channel. . . . Neural vibrations exit my centra1 glacial chamber, cascade traumatically into sub-chambers where each one triggers its own wider burst of misorientated sound – until I am seized by helpless incipient chaos presided over only by echo. ---- The glacier's uprising is discovered in the production and distribution of shivers throughout connective tissue (intersubjectivity). These creaks do not indicate anything other than the body unfastening to itself: "speaking" here is purely kinetic. Elsewhere immobile rocks unbrick their presence like great bricks which explode pari passu with consciousness; erupt arthritic gunshots born in silence that extends far beyond past seeing: these nightmares transfigure nothing meanwhile but behind them a previous vanishing no longer exists at all.
