
Act 1: The southerly winds have arrived. I feel like a woman who at last sees her lover return from afar. The light breeze cuts me and stirs up memories in the village that used to exist here, now abandoned to my mercy. I'm about 25 kilometers from a frontier whose official status does not bother or confuse me. ---- In this act two appearances coexist: wooded mountains and no night sky; earth whereupon something white flows, winding right through each person's effortless flight into better atmospheres; people multiplying by moving faster than themselves each instant of their existence … And then, when sleep falls over all these things in deceptive defeat as they struggle against its weight: everything is washed away with the cleanest possible touch of darkness … Land: When it passes close to my shore, hoary with thick forests along its banks and rafts transported by no-one across calm waters towards forgotten ports, the river boils among mysterious islands whose shores are never visited but for strange birds flying out of dark cave tunnels … A vagrant boat bobs ever on unknown waters upturned beneath empty skies!

Act 2: The rain washes over me with an anxious slowness, as if aware of its ingratitude. On my surface, abandoned heaps of grey sand limp forlornly in the rain until worn smooth into a saucepan full of thin clear water filled with memories and pain. I'm alone on the desert's grave, upon which the moon falls like snow falling on the sea.

Act 3: The South Wind is at last here! It fells me. It tramples and twists me. I can taste the damp, mighty air that harks back to an impersonal glory and opens out into funereal silence above my head. By turning everything upside down one last time land turned over by a sea of dark wet sand the very wind blowing across it from the great beyond snatches up lifeless scraps in its death throes … Land is left alone again after life has shrieked past like lightning, rupturing occasionally as it splits open for brief instants among quagmires quickly filling with forgetfulness born from dying hopes … And there will be nothing more within this inert matter than gravity once ponds have dried along now forgotten shores … ---- (Enter old man) Old Man: Once on a journey, I caught sight of the amount of water lost between two stretches of dry ground bristling with tall grasses resting on exposed rocks split right through … When was that? What knowledge are you trying to find wrapped up like grief in your grave clothes? Are you really looking so hard for ghosts sprouting eyes everywhere upon faraway plains as if they were innumerable tears close to some moon-enforced stillness?
