
Act 1: I hear the clamor of vast, mute seas. My waters are sudden lakes filled with alternating clear and muddy pools: bright blue pools between shadows, always dark, from different angles in a constant battle. The ego loves greens and yellows for their clarity' And elsewhen that moon would rise, one half above the hill crest; all so uncertainly I could have had to be there; vigil moons suddenly falling or rising out on the plain pale-blue: I was behind them but calling them loudly (because of what) slightly drunk old dead voices and laughing memories confused together in copses blind with walls around me by thin forest shadows resting somewhere silently yet truly upon my heart's dreaming silvered open branches streaming face upward before then like water in wells saying as they fell “No memory has ever existed” probably because it didn't know anything about them which soon became obscure leaving only fragments traced frequently until expressions appeared first scattered out badly cut like false coins that bore within some stamped memory.

Act 2: My condition as I reflect it to myself translates as if this land were an anonymous biograph: very sensitive in relation to the Moon. Alienated from all planets, including their own. One of those who ask before answering and reply with speculation rather than information: a true enthusiast of mystery life poised like a spider in the dark corners of my soul.

Act 3: I am the center and periphery. The clear, bright side of clouds that other people call the edge where they lose contact with me: all ruled or half-ruled by an order built out of shadows. Marble stairs ascending without end toward a light (money?), returning down again, pinned to sand made rigid by millions undermined in those who lived before us and were our dreams quickly frowned upon (the nostalgia for earlier nights?) one was standing behind them but lying forward looking back unconsciously searching as he listened saying oh God then why did you make them? It's almost daylight now, winds are blowing blindingly into everything that could be home if it wasn't raining; rhythmic hammers clang echoing underneath like always ringing struck iron powerlessly on the surface of great yellow pans full of imperfect silky moons. Each wave laughs because it can rise up over itself raising hissing applause from all surfaces at once splashing what couldn't be water surfing on fragile sands unknown afar defining rain abruptly falling lightly frailly uphill windows flung open positively letting a common fragility grow colder as lonely lights become fused lost within gray fallings off old trees growing miniature gardens around houses grown vast amongst tall ghosts walls reaching high asleep even into stars … What monologues have I ever written!
