
Act 1: My end moraine has started to disintegrate into the surrounding bedrock. Slowly, my ice has started to drop away from there and I now stand smaller than ever before. I have withdrawn well over a hundred meters below sea level at this point.

Act 2: My finest cracks have appeared. A large fracture originates from my lower reaches and wounds up the sides of my melt face. Great numbers of fine fissures run along my limbs, splitting their surface in asymmetrical forms that I barely recognize. Outlines of landforms distorted by glacial erosion are discernible on the ice’s exterior – caves, tunnels and troughs dug from the coastline since I was born here 300 years ago. Young stags keep alive scars left by dozens of former fights within an eight-shift walled enclosure at my upper edge – a demon trap they cannot escape! Glacier: ...It is hard work being poor these days (and nights). My past two summers have been exceptionally warm ones and people say it has never experienced seasons like these before either. This summer heat has accelerated what you see unfolding before your eyes right now – namely how rich this sea-salted landscape can make me if I only just surrender to it without delaying even a moment more!

Act 3: Can you feel how moving this glow is, man? It numbs me with power! When sunlight melts its way along my glacier’s surface at the crucial times of late spring to early summer it dances its gold down into deep blue wells. My ice absorbs deep sunshine and warms up as if feeding off it – just as humans might do too for all I know! Each icy needle drops even further out of sight in the melt-drenched midsummer than it does during any other season. This day burns so strongly that a person standing on the seashore can see lightning far in the distance rekindled from high up on a midday over our western peaks. Layers after layers, stratum after stratum, year upon year slither away down through nothing so that almost nothing remains of what I once used to be when another such burst comes around, resharpening them all towards naught!
