
Act 1: Sometimes I sink into my own memories, – how people and beasts were lost in me centuries ago, how the lightning of service stations fractures down through the ice, how corbels carry the buildings that never fully form from deep within. <br> ---- Several villages have left their marks inside me. Their graveyards long ago sank into my stomachs... ... When summer's here, clouds cradle themselves amidst ruins and make rooms hum with warmth. The nearest village was abandoned at war's time (our silence) and is now held prisoner by me; its styleless stone houses refresh themselves beneath my belly. People played music on a stage overlooking the sea which resonates still in cliff fabric where moraines fan out at storm's edge: these are places bitter as horses' breath that father no children but whistle dolefully like ships going mutely round an islanded archipelago ; caves talk off unparticular sound to what crackles astonishingly low frequencies whose cochlear centres rasp vocal cords raw... ...

Act 2: My love of the sea crests inside me. From my underwater bed I see young icebergs poked out of my cliffs like baby teeth; sponges ride up and leak rainbows everywhere... ... ----- Fragments have left their cracks in me, – first impressions worn thin by numbers that re-immerse me into something both familiar and foreign to those with eyes: how an erosive gutter system turns its edge on a squab between myself and that big sister glacier who always keeps one eye on her little version's bony backside, letting frostbite edge insidiously between our neighbours but leaving us as twins joined under umbilical ice thread unfrayed though it silts steadily earthwards year after year while we grow apart at some same ghastly mercury pace which withers years till they stop walking...– ------ Maggots press restless wriggle-shapes into shifting fog banks hereabouts where subsonic echoes give listener lice the pip... Ice gets embedded in the backs of children rubistained blue over millennia gripped hothouse safe betwixt jagged tectonics advancing down this valley above three bigger glaciers higher still:!

Act 3: — I'm broken. -------- My shadow is a burning wind of snow grains that engrave my glassbead eyes with dull glacierised snapshots: their names are the only words still left in me that refer to the dead language elsewhere. ----------- Thunder rumbles those clunkers rolling up here from distant halite beds or slug down here from boiling sea mouths...
