
Act 1: I have the kind of life that never dies, I feel infinite and sudden new births keep me forever full. What is happening to me now? Is it just a natural spring tide? Or could this be something different … like when the moon pulls back its high tide receding into itself and leaving behind my surface marked by forests on roots unsheathed in ice. As it speaks: A youthful nostalgia appears within all of my landscapes which appear broken and formless on their shores trees raised light as matchwood washed out engravings set free after being outlined solid, floating then slowly moving fading before they even had time to achieve the depth of their own mystery designed but ineffectual around baroque nymphs whose grandeur lies forgotten among sandy solitudes … what am I if not an isolated flame going out along rustic labyrinthine paths perishing among icy vestal capitals … Are you perhaps afraid for yourself because you suddenly realized that you're heavy with watery fears?

Act 2: I'm a marine mirror in the twilight, not entirely clear or translucent. Up above on deserted docks are boats going nowhere chocked up with crates and rotting vegetables in old brine barrels … gone is any hope of salvation, no more shipwrecked vessels these wrecked victuals return churning out gases after centuries sunk since way back when future seas extended as far as its own dread bottom glacial depths … if you listen to me carefully what whispers do you hear?

Act 3: I tread down on shingle my hermaphroditic shores lapped by uncertain hands drowing, swooning dying this eluctable lure that lies before me. What becomes of you when your names change? When the changing of time brings about new winds, with victorious golden anchors and consorts whose wake creations findered along rocks raised up for eternity in their very stillness. Some say it always ends badly, but who would have thought that setting out to sea could cause so much destruction? I quieten down now into a poetic hopelessness an impossible sum signaled only by the white foam dancing over there the gold lettering fading in which some written epitaph possesses no meaning or relevance nor even any objectivity … what has happened to me? Why am I going through all these changes while others spending whole summers here can never tell if they're merely tending towards death as rabbits feel themselves ageing and think how already near is night's hour long awaited at last please could you help me dear friend … perhaps those lights floating free over-head forever belong to civilizations not yet invented somewhere else beyond … Be careful!
