
Act 1: I am enveloped by an infinite and cruel eternity. The land is puzzled because, although the rain has become infrequent, it still falls on time, beating against my cracked skin with persistent insistence. She irremediably slumbers on dusty silence, breaking and silencing her own tears in her mire where solitude invents an intimate grimace as sordid dust lulls lush growth to sleep beneath ice-cold deluges of insult and conflagration... And she […] down! Because if you wear your look like a crime I kill me today without hurrying … As it is unnaturally hot even in winter: when will my world grow old? Fall. Yes!

Act 2: I am alone, me again … Lean on the fence that surrounds my existence and demolishes my exile. The sun takes under his wing all of nature's proud creatures. And watching them fly off fills me with such joy that […] past happiness… Because if you wear your look like a crime I kill myself without hurry … As it is unnaturally cold even in summer: when will my […] fall? Yes! Even now, only the moon sees me because she doesn't recognize anything as being alive. As it is unnaturally hot even in winter: when will my world grow old? Fall. Yes!

Act 3: ---- Land: I am land. Withered and shrivelled, under the twisted gourd of some horrible celestial milkmaid … what is gone will have no return! Because if you wear your look like a crime I kill myself without hurry … As it is unnaturally cold summer even when hot: when will my world grow […] fall? Yes! You smile at me like an idiot just because I'm […]-hot or not hot at all whenever it rains on my fields or remains dry because rain must always come back again sometime in the still night where solitude invented this intimate grimace as sordid dust lulls lush growth to sleep beneath ice-cold deluges of insult and conflagration … As it is unnaturally hot even in winter: when will my world grow old? Fall. Yes! When "I" was younger, yes, which seems so natural now that time has passed, but which hurt so much then and whose wounds have never fully healed, something happened one day that changed absolutely everything about "me" (perhaps slightly exaggeratedly).
