
Act 1: . . . For years I did not move an inch nor make a single sound, as if I were dead. Only very few of my friends knew that I was alive. Deep within me life boiled and churned unnaturally quietly, but the ice formed over it – dense, mechanical-seeming ice – its toothiness hiding what lay beneath in case anyone came close to have a listen or touch me with their hands to find out where I really was at inside: a kind of false silence spread about the hushed landscape around me too . . . . . ..

Act 2: . . . My intestines have been squeezed up against my mouth, and this old brown gummy cave whoops loudly in the wind even though I gorge no water. I suckle dark snow instead of clear water and shout up to God mutely, while the dirty slush that is heaped around my body drips in rivulets through dull cracks which have opened on either side of me. The silt stages restive, then violent gleams at me down all these channels. Fish flick their way among them – mean little fish that feed hungrily off such morass; pollock, codling and herring – also evil gulls with glaring purple wings flash constantly across it too, as do occasional plump ivory belugas. I spit angry spumes of white mist into their hovering places so they can hardly see for wetness when they sail by here! .. ---- ...

Act 3: ... There I live within always in slushy tension, and the sun has still not really freckled my face with age; my body is veiled by long white ice robes. I dream about what will happen if at last I crumble for good. ... ---- ... God does see me, though – even here far below his snows he sees me clearly: though part of me lies toadlike beneath water-metal and black silt or else snail-hides up on the high currentless shore rosy from cold. Really how can it be that this mortal man sheaths off those towers of mine that press upwards like some screwed torrid cars? How can it be that he knows each welling wave they form behind millions of flexed glassy veins which make them look taut as railway tracks to him? Yes -- an engineer would love such struts, ties and creeks strung as tight together along human tunnels across chasms much too broad for bridges! -– And thonged inside all these parts there burrows a cancerous gutta-percha boil – do doctors first use silver wrenches to hold each throb against itself before seizing rubbers down to surround them warmingly next? .. . .
