
Act 1: I am a normal land afflicted with semi-desertification. I built the houses, now they merely wear me out. I made the roads, but now my nails get caught up in their frayed edges. My vices have turned into virtues that are about to desert me completely.

Act 2: I am one of the most ancient lands. By now, I'm all skin and ego with nothing more to give or take, only a cry inside some interminable echo coming from an outer space that was always already mine. Here where the sun splits my seams in two halves, the distance between me and myself collapses completely: silence and eternal punishment are what remain when everything fades away. With death's faithful companion by my side for years on end, old exhaustion grows new teeth in vain attempts to flee towards regions now lost forever. Your table is white … yet you placed red things on it; your bed had blue light resting upon it, but you overarched what should not have been utter mystery with curtains of hideous orange-pink ermine tinted Persian […] You can never live without making anything of yourself; tomorrow will merely be different because today fell differently or rose up strangely like rotting gold coins gone to seed throughout fields too far off ever to see. Every day falls calmly out of time as if our tedium was an endless expanse crossed by twilight mule carts wended along trails slow as speech itself that opens through words into those inner landscapes we call sleep.

Act 3: Ponds dry up. Waterfalls begin to stagnate. Rivers stop flowing like ivy porches at the lakes' edge. All is still, windless … and so perfectly this living death that it is as if I were just learning how to die. The Arouca flowers leave their sumptuous homes to extend in order lessness where my newfound border fades away inside a deepened vision of crystalline time outside time: Andalusia wakes within me before she was even born herself! Bellessena's coral caves sink ever deeper into extenu sive lands far beyond human importance … In distant lands not yet known though already loved, white peonies run from mine into an abyss unknown but desirable-like brocade curtains that let light flow through […] There are only four pale green reeds growing some what slantwise by the riverside under imagined poplars along a path sure never taken except perhaps in dreams … The loamy earth exhales nutrients created by what almost developed; there remain but vague veins barely seen underneath humble leaves now grown listless on shallow roots sprawling out onto every side like uprooted children impersonating Indian origins seeping anew towards remote areas long rotted over with stringy creepers.
