
Act 1: and when I feel alone on the deserted beach, I stare at the frolicking and playing of rivulets traveling great distances before meeting me. These waters are lighter than mine but have an airier fluidity that nevertheless ensures they will reach the same place. They arrive bearing my own image and later then fall asleep in peaceful pools amongst vines and lemon groves; their cool liquid breath plays with little new born lambs whilst ducks float like yellow flowers upon ponds bordered by rushes as green as hair tinted with lime green faience. And these reflections, what do they mean to me? My bed sheet is pathetic, being only a part of who I am … in such hours it becomes frivolous to be alive, so distant from God even my dampness feels dry and when moonlight gaily throws all her somnambulant fires onto the surface of lakes all cobweb rays intrude into my depths turning my blue eyes pale ebon. My existence betrays no trace either way!

Act 2: I am, full stop/empty pause/small circle. A material metaphor for the Unknown! - I never forget myself but neither do I obtrude upon my own story, that of rivers swollen by rains and violent with grumbling ghosts; lakes deep and clear as polished metal; limpid pools where playful witches bathe naked in the buff under a summer's influence … So many incidents happen to me on so many shores! The odious crachin is cold, it dampens my refined sensibility. (This humidity suits soft landscapes because it turns them into fluid ones.) Meanwhile somewhere far away eagle exploits soar; endless reflections imitating flagpoles flutter around. Wings flap up above me and enjoy flight without feeling an overwhelming need to fly off God's hand held high at all times while down below warm ditsy chicks hatch … like ivy climbing walls covered in growing shadows … alright?

Act 3: Back already? What utter joy to see you again! No, no, please stay, don't go. And leave this all behind you? After all the humdrum then … ? A life I live in your company is worth more than everything else put together. But if that is how it has been ordained by divine destiny then let me continue dreaming my present self and feasting like a shivering somnambulist upon false food … Actually fuck thinking things out tomorrow morning I'm half asleep anyways. Anyway there's always the stars tonight to keep us from forgetting our dreams; rather quite dead as an anonymous saint in some Our Lady's chapel without prayers of devotion (you know what they are?) The big cities destroy you with their ambitious smoggy grime and squalid aspirations … If only they didn't exist! Alas there is no escaping them or other similar monsters Fate takes on many guises but those who see through blindfolds have mainly just given up looking for a penknife capable of bodging up Time's ominous cracking heels (I wonder if spinning madly on high isn't simply helping turn down years). The sadness steals slowly away taking not even its human tears which never flow here anyway.
