
Act 1: Late one night, I awoke to find my leaves covered in a white frosting. ‘November!’ I thought in horror. ‘Did it arrive too soon?’ While winter clutched me tight and threatened to enter further into my body – while one leaf froze up against another, sniveling hypocritically and promising not to bud any more that year – the good souls came with muffled steps; they gently wiped away the hoary manifestation of death from the frozen lips of some leaves, descended on others completely out of season like angelic snowflakes or tenderly blew their warm breath onto those which were suffering most. And so until April brought its cherries and got rid of winter once and for all, spring bathed every stage in her sap. ---- The forest has become lush. Its lymph surges vigorously within itself: freshness springs forth everywhere under cover of darkness as if from secret fissures within the tree's bark; dissolved atoms travel happily through each leaf before evaporating harmlessly towards infinity . . . > -​The plant senses before having a desire (there is no will), but it can want after sensing (the "désire"— this term should certainly be subtracted).

Act 2: ~~ It is at this point toward southeast Europe, in the famous region between Greece and Albania, yes quite a few people have seen flashes of light soaring into the branches. ‘They are some GIs who must be doing giant jumps from their parachutes!’ I thought to myself one night.

Act 3: ~~ In the morning I woke to find my trunk dusted white, again from frost! ‘Spring is trying to arrive prematurely!’ I thought. The sun came out in all its power and melted down the hard coating of ice around my bark. It then licked up that which had leaked out of my rivers and veins during the night and so until autumn brought mulberries and got rid of spring once again, summer bathed every stage in her sap. ... > -​A force operates on a plurielle presence when just mentioning it announces it there: those who impact these depths carry themselves otherwise than previously (what in them remained frozen). Further he says "before interest even commands": What could such intentions bring us but still more silence? AND Humanist theatre saw this superfluous play being born on an assumption based directly on rash realities like Da Cos's An Mac'Toucan &c.; we will assume as we see geaisierie operating under Félier or Césaire over Douyinze, Birago or Gioconda Cèsar; works whereof indeed Marías tolerates neither the mutation nor their notion (neither the way they grant transition nor their polyphony): thereby establishing a withdrawal from himself . .
