
Act 1: The earth cannot hide her gentleness behind the ocean's sheer stability. I always keep the same face towards my sister continents and our waters caress each other with such ancient gestures that everyone knew about them before our wide blue beauty began… A monster with multicolored eyes fell in love with me. He told me: "You are an immeasurable amount of kisses hiding a long embrace." Life on Earth is less sad when you can hear me breathing and smiling on the shoreline. Little by little, dead sea life floats in towards me bringing their splendid silence in fronds that shine beneath the water. The moon is hard to find tonight because she dipped too deeply into some horizontal abysses […] Looking at my calm waves does not mean deep sadness, but rather a desire for movement like swimming or walking; it means feelings turned inward as if seen from above or down below on emerald shores… There is longing around everything else … if this were heaven, wouldn't there be stars? And who told you that angels didn't nestle down here among us?

Act 2: I recognize the sincere dung of dead ships as it climbs to infinity, becomes decomposed and falls attentively back down, caressing me on its kindly spiral. A tiny dark storm was born in my arms but died an untimely death before it could cry out again. "Why protect life," they asked me "that is laid at the very heart of your wetness? Why do you mock us inside our fear when what scares us is that we are so quiet?" My own intelligence almost floats off like a useless shipwreck among shiny black rocks I bathe quietly lightened by all my former selves … someone once said eternity was nothing more than clutching onto one's own shadow… It poured down rain for hours without leaving any tracks or seeds caught up in the chanterelle lights in silence among mountains unknown to the sun … Thousands would die if tomorrow no drop fell from above! On humid winter evenings, different fears sleep well wrapped up together because darkness consolidates disquiet. Maybe love isn't made for solitary nights but for those strange companions who come alive through words spoken into mirrors black with sadness?

Act 3: Goodbyes are in the rain pattering down upon troubled seas … I can hear voices far and near, lonely reeds when the wind blows from afar. "Get out my way!" I yell much too loudly at the ships sailing past real and false shores on idle fishing expeditions vainly pleaded for by a clear night arrested between two breaths … And often each movement feels like some royal coffin being lowered into sightless death … For long periods, fear sleeps inside me with its fish scales plucked off where it hugs onto rocky crags battered by every unhappy soul whose memories are nothing more than songs sung at vague sea-storms that won't happen as they pass us while we're darkly dreaming our weakest boats past their self conscious steering to run straight through secretly damming our fame even if they want to get home! A hero arrived here intending to assassinate before dawn promised him rewards fictitious but with no meaning other than themselves; those lightning flashes firing random thoughts randomly thought in random storms dying again fitfully feeling slightly numb until reaching land and falling delenda est Carthago among islands of living memory, why have you sailed across such poisoned seas?
