
Act 1: Look, the sand of this beach is singing. From within me all that seethes and rages, seems to end here along with my long wave-washed shoreline. The slow tide rolls up a white foam and I am, after all those journeys towards foreign shores, calm at last Only on returning does one learn that home never really grew stale for missing you. My journey was always circumscribed by being in an external world made only of facets which nevertheless gather around a single center from which I sought out other beaches with their own particular song and scent where as if exiled from myself … because exile creates room to think more about yourself and your soul enlarges with solitude so therefore […] squandered away part of God's gifts But nothing lasts forever: even the eddies in my water slowly lose themselves amid cadaverous sands time never fails to slowly erode them millennia are mere seconds perhaps without passing through any intermediary race or current imperceptible to us mortals but on becoming aware of some superior force and how everything is changing … When I abandoned you it was not due to boredom or weariness minuscule crumbles don't divert me only rivers vast enough can distract me while they guide me toward my true harbor: Being free!

Act 2: I linger in an eternally childish landscape surrounded by sleeping shores lined with large casinos built on the shore. My beach is a small provincial town where everyone walks arm-in-arm along the deserted banks. Here a medley of voices echoes round corners, through windblown dead ends and wistfully lost passages: gull's nests are built out of human souls build them into mine sings my seabreeze accompanied only by her own oceanic self playing nostalgia for me … cruel yet unthoughtful breezes erode what we touched as if nothing existed neither you or I together beneath the night breeze fallen from paradise like dusk from days gone past swooping down to catch one last peal blown upon alone like an old church bell leaning up against some wall battered and forgotten but still continuing its lonely vain attempt at stirring excitement inside these empty walls singing O how nice it was when it was all abloom!

Act 3: should I not be this dilapidated bridge crossing an unseen stream? Did I really know that the moon could die among the thousands of symbolic names, scattered with shining sand onto the foreheads of simple fishing men who roam these deserted shores in boats sailing with barely a sound? Let no one bathe in my waters, where night has fallen like this mosaic all washed away by rain. Sadness dries up, to my river banks growing empty, dreamless amongst trees beneath blond clouds endlessly spreading their dull green over some kind of ancient peasant village perched high overhead upon leafy terraces turning around and about each other like souls … until time destroys even nostalgia for ourselves as if alone inside our own bell tower leaning upon sadnesses it would have been better never dreamed or created! My silence is enormous. If only you took me by the hand so that we could run together through flowers so you did not always play at being the orphaned princess leaving me standing alone on these riverside steps hoping your feelings might change after all those years trapped within memories … When fate and dreams came along they too played false: what is real when sensation ranges elsewhere?….
