
Act 1: The shadows of leaves whisper to me secretly in the darkness, and together we guard those invisible drops of water. The moon reflects with silver on my cracked face. Reflected in its truth there lives the nostalgia I feel only at night time when no one sees me. My body drains dry of rivers without even seeing their sources burbling into existence. And there goes the rain … It passes as if it had never even been here! All that remains is a fleeting sense of having dreamt its settling upon my lands like some petal-fall from outer space falling onto fields full of mystified mirrors where pale horses vie with blazing fires for glory writ mute by the gods' spindles circling evanescent threads within an oblique circle arching backward over them all somehow steeped in something … but why explain? Why translate dreams? Let life speak for itself! And just do your best not to disappear amidst life's own self, look after yourself and spend wisely….. Think about this!! Say it aloud!! ENLARGE YOURSELF AS I SPEAK TO YOU: GROW!!!

Act 2: they are just ghosts, these clouds. Besides, you'd have to be a fool … Any fool could forsake me now and get off scot free in the process. A gentle breeze breathed by the cosmos and I feel like closing my eyes so that I won't see it all happening right before my very own eyes…. But who will cry over my desert? Water is fading day by day under a thickening sky that boats in vain upon my flesh offering up gratitude for what hidden eaves don't hear and windows don't behold, whilst giving vent to a sad whimper longing for some forgotten cradle song sung merely as comfort between children sitting at night around their extinguished fire imagened from ash mirrors placing her face along with theirs reflected upon mine leaving only our lips moist resignedly seeking each other out silently within this thick drawing blood real tears spilled softly on the floor beneath the bed's window projected traumatically across landscapes washed away forever beyond oblivion lands! Truly!! She dreamt singing!!!

Act 3: Mirages shine amidst rough waters that caress dried-up lakes. Dead plants and trees sprout beneath feeble thunder, in the long pools of solitude and death. No music would fit for their black specks, scattering about under a grimy metaphor made love to only by wind. Historical events kill my dreams with mystery dead tiredness bathing like sea waves upon unknown beaches within me. Land: it's absurd!!
