
Act 1: The search for unity; what intoxicates me, keeps me alive. All of nature is less beautiful without it - in fact, it's not even there. This is where I belong: To the imminence of disaster and to the clarity of being at ease with myself. The most distant shore cannot equal this calm that waits at my very core . . . Where existence resembles itself so greatly that everything becomes quiet around you. ... My simplicity makes life effortless here on my slopes; people come from far away just to take a glimpse at me each time they travel by sea or air over my flat expanse, until one day maybe someday I'll stop working altogether, dead postponed abruptly like an embarrassment! (laughs) You're witnessing the end of eras: as soon as we penetrate reality beneath its mask thus will disappear many false grudges thinned out along our route !

Act 2: The search for unity; that which intoxicates me, keeps me alive. Variety far from imploding in a dash of disorder has imposed on matter its own law to the unforeseen but irreplaceable benefit of creation! The most distant shore cannot rival this calm whose roots settle deep within many separate realities . . . Where existence accumulates "itself" so readily that everything becomes clear around you. ... My simplicity makes clarity effortless here on my slopes: people come from afar just to meditate at my confluence, until one day maybe someday I'll stop working altogether, dead postponed abruptly like an opportunistic overture! (laughs) You're witnessing the end of eras: as soon as we penetrate reality beneath its mask thus will disappear many false grudges scarcely veiled along our route ! ---- A transparent stillness surrounds me and submerges in these flakes frozen millions of years ago: no longer do power games occupy us because each game is useless next to man's delirium. Around this blue tattoo notre vieux monde devolves into something utterly h umanseIcss!. "We'1111 lose much": such is your temptation. "'They'll lose more': your obsession!

Act 3: Our essence lives through the corporeal forms of passion and mind, whatever we proclaim loudly. Existence corresponds to itself without being aware of it. ... The words that circulate today aren't more than deformations of our secret love toward things! We search in vain for a complete language while, rising up behind each uncertainty, there is revealed the breadth of a new dawn: why are you tormented by this need to wager ? (laughs) Having presented itself onto IneHque solitudes at last disenchanted I see nothing around me but convulsions burdening your self-imposed decisions; most often false grudges ! Your images do not suffice any longer: breakthroughs swallow them whole. "We'11l lose even more": such is your temptation. "'They'll lose less': - no longer an obsession! I'm melting away toward one or another shore; long ago have vanished other mouths already denuded ... With what will you remberme? My eyes look down onyour endeavors yet my clarity settled elsewhere may be far distant from yours ... Abandoned crops cover all traces here ...
