
Act 1: The wind comes over the surrounding highland and blows through my gullies, chutes and throats. My bowels erump with gurgles: there could be tension in them à la hum . . . Maybe dangerous rumbling can reach us from within. Honk! I don't go so deep that some glacial noises cannot reach our valley. ~ ... But what about this white spot on a rock above me?

Act 2: ~~ . . . We have hard years behind us: too hot, and then this infernal drought. Continuous lightning explosions on the high plateau upstream from me – three months! ... a thousand thunder claps per day! - good Lord save that rock up there from those trancing-in electric discharges. Close to some of my foothills are happy human settlements with lots of racket in their lives, signal trumpets for instance; I hear the children playing football so close by at one point that they could splash right into the wet gorge whence one false step would bring them sliding onto my moraine and over here. ~ ... It is low temperature again now: winter coming back to nest as we get ready to calve our new ice mass on its northern drift edge out there just under cliff level, formed while summer was hardly here but now needing to come through before it can be born externally; oh dear God when will this waiting stop so that I can give birth? .. :r-rAhhhhrrrr~ And yes – listen, Jesus – die!

Act 3: ~~ . . . Rain, how come again after so long? Maybe we’ve been spoiled last summer; one rests badly when there are two summers in succession. ... Snowball fights: here I will never be able to give birth on our moraine without human intervention – look at that! All by themselves the men break up small ice blocks and make a snow football pitch on my back slope. ~... There down below somewhere is the lake with its slow tidal traffic of fifty otters in their high fur coats swimming close to shore, thigh-deep as they play catch with stones, fish-scales and driftwood. ~ ... We’ve grown used to each other slowly over god knows many thousands of years; man needs me for drinking water (how do I need him!), but he makes noise too like those heavy beer bottles wrenched hard from the cellar ice pile over yonder where red berries flash soon into grisly meat well enough for bears but poor eating for us stone bears of glaciers. Hah! How nightlong it is getting around noon out here! This awful winter just won’t let go or get going: how much longer before I can give birth out here onto the sea docks and freeze again that little baby iceberg?
