
Act 1: When a breeze passes by and runs its gaze over the surface of my body, for example, I do not even notice. But simultaneously with this shiver, there are other changes to observe on the rustling sands and what was submerged suddenly is sodden and exposed; in most cases it hides again beneath me when evening sets like a heavy cargo ship laden with clouds onto that exhausted earthly beach. Off to one side is a calm fig tree snuggled into moonlight … etcetera … <br> The branches of that motionless leafy tree bend towards my violence without fear or gesture: just their quiet gestures gift me with kisses we give our mother's ring finger. Splashes are mute whispers made good use of in moments of dark contemplation where no material act can be composed because matter itself has retreated along an elusive curve. When someone thinks they have found eternal death in me, they plunge head first only to redeem themselves later once they find out they lived thanks to an extraordinary stroke of fate.

Act 2: I can make one dream into a forest while at the same time laying out meadows of white lakes. Sometimes, in moments of introspection a quality that only other bodies have it seems to me that I remember myself and know who I am; when external stimulus interrupts such recollections of my identity, however, I lose track completely and forget everything about what kind of body skittering waves caress. <br> My anonymous existence lives so relentlessly within this centripetal world that it might just as well be centrifugal relative to it … etcetera … The sea's surface is nothing but lungs filled with the softest sighs.

Act 3: The ever-changing curves of the shore end toilfully in water that rats drink. I moan a dull, contemplative lullaby like a formless shape from a distant century, when people would wear motley and masks as they celebrated some strange festival. <br> When night falls it darkens just so much necessary moonlight … etcetera … Everything is quiet enough for inner glances drifting aimlessly over blurred landscapes you used to know quite well but now don't recognize: an enormous mirror reaching out into vastness distorts all color because these seas break the light which slack winds waltz with rags draped around splintered ships' skeletons dragged one last time across cold granite quays. It seems that destiny may be sometimes cruel but love never deserves mercy.
