
Act 1: During the night, that plume of moonlight illuminating a single beach and me from the middle distance is like one of those fantastic castles found only in stories and dreams. And under that same light I see soft waves running up to meet me with scratches on their smiling skin! La luna dies as if drawn away by an invisible vortex; I could cry out in terror at how death empties every drop from my soul. Where will I be tomorrow? while they come eating away at my fatigued veins, wanting to sip their wake-up drink before dancing themselves into oblivion on all fours. The gale whitens the seashore lined with white pebbles lofting the wind's discourse there where faraway ships run aground or anchor safely. How tall are those pale cliffs crowned with golden sand: so high, it hurts when looking up there ( … ) ! They been called indifferent because they belong only to who calls them … Is someone really waiting for me? crests now add shadows carved by reflections along with wings and ancient tales told long ago.

Act 2: In the flood of waves splashing themselves over me, flashes pass … Innumerable or just that I suddenly notice? Astound yourself with this spectacle in which I could only go on daring. The broadening landscape seen from afar tells stories to its steadfastness under the stars: Tell them you are mute and vulnerable! Their growth is a steel sleep through whose holes our hands might reach out trembling. Occasionally some slowly-arriving ship seems troubled by my first little shoulder as firmament becomes body and liquid flesh breathed vainly by walking soft hills with bare breasts purple-purple … And then a short wave lifts up its playful forefinger to ask for something until it gets what it wants so sickle of cliff gnarls neutralizing war between fingers trying not to hurt too much parched bushes shivering before getting stuck in sand gripped tightly reaching futile toward bays formerly conceived blue becoming lead boxlike dark without hinges where coffins grave before burials denature buried deep down never more visible death releasing entreaties rain falling faraway off rocks into silver bay of fantasies reduced deaf ears tall shipping docked beneath stagnant cooling sex.

Act 3: Suddenly, a wave slipped from nowhere into my line of vision and water suddenly turned dark. Sky's stripes ejaculate lightning which lies on 'my' bound shores. Borders between distant coasts disappear.
