
Act 1: Darkness is fleeing from me and in my place either the sun sets or it shines a pale moonlight. The lights of boats on the water are like lanterns signaling their farewell to the surface. First, love took away our depths, and when we men went too deep for that reason, waves pridefully frolicked above us. Everything is black now [this sentence rhymes with everything turns gray] but I still tremble at every gentle sound of caresses coming toward me.

Act 2: I always feared death would inevitably happen one day and that, for the world's sake, it should occur anonymously. I now feel something akin to great life slowly leaving me like a barge with no one at the helm floating off from its accustomed source by some cold and cruel trick I can only compare myself to a wom an whose womb is giving birth but her labor pains are not climaxing in an orgasm nor will they ever again: My guts need rest or suffer cramps of pain while my eggs rot waiting to be hatched in warm nests… The moon watches pityingly as I await another evolution; she waves away my solitude. It was never worth falling into love. Love sank us out of sight beyond even hearing the tools men use on dry land … and thus our most intimate thoughts were hindered by silt repeatedly building dam after dam. My waters have unknowingly dried up far too many creatures who died because they found neither air nor warmth hidden under so much slime… How soon we forget those whom we left behind!

Act 3: The storm struck violently. Its thunderbolt on me is my defining point, for using the metaphor of myself as a boat weather beaten by storms, I begin to imagine great feelings entirely new with no precedent; crossing them only fills me with pain. When I was lulled by every boreal breeze, did you know that you murdered me? Do not tell me anymore that in order to live and die nobly, answer instead what it feels like inside an absolute emptiness: otherwise if one knew how to do it, bitterness would be turned into poison … Aren't the thoughts we have when numb with cold just talcum powder arising from sadness? If a light went out in my skies and none took its place what would happen inside this empty space where once upon a time sparks fell uneasily in heaps like fireflies dusting dead gatherings of coals?
