
Act 1: ---- The forest moves on to describe deep winter, when the cold has ‘plunged me into a frozen sleeplessness set aglow by slow fires.’ Life continues nevertheless, underground: new growth is emerging from sleep as bumblebees make ready for their rebirth in the spring. ‘Summer isn’t easy . . . there is more thirst and solitude here than ever.’ He regards his bare scarred legs with tender sadness: his annually rejuvenated limbs are tense once again after the hibernation of winter but will soon be charming and golden with foliage. ‘I hope you don’t give up on me before I blossom once more around you!’ – This tender speaker is also quick to perceive enemies: he lives close to blast furnaces where plants wither because they cannot breathe under atmospheres rich in fine pollution; he contemplates contaminated bodies that are nothing like him which nonetheless strive desperately toward life – ‘they know nothing else but grim disease! But not me!

Act 2: Standing in the snow and wind under their gaze, a shiver passes through me: I am suspicious of these clothes which periodically get wet from melting glaciers or watered by huge cold clouds; it rains on my nakedness. Listen! Everything is growing up to harvest time, so we will be completely alone – God too will come disguised as blight when he attempts to make his mark here.’ – ‘Into this dimension between two fiats how will you enter?’ – ‘I shall see myself formed: my egg-shaped shell streaming with hope and in love.’ ---- Here also are strange exchanges with human trespassers who buy part of its gold (corpuscles) but mortify most of its body (soil). The trees sold for firewood remain lying untouched when no longer needed. Unable to attain force sufficient to lift itself up, the forest transmits lessons learned thus far while serving indefinitely as "love's emetic": it listens until exhaustion grows old and looks over men who do not know how hungry they truly are unless there remains nothing but hunger It already harbors them inside before emerging mushroom-like off the ground every Autumn: joyous rebirths clipped each Spring by men clearing out intervening forests.

Act 3: – There we go! We finally made it! How blessed I am to be the one and only forest you can see before your eyes, being your altar and headstone! – ‘One:’ my body is a painful scarring of many arboreal spirits walled up in me, among them these poor branches displaying fifteen gold leaves each spring, which unfurl for all eternity with nothing else left to say. ‘The One:’ men have not listened yet and continue chopping wood whatever the season may bring. - As fecund as he would like to be ("its torn body never recovers from overproduction"), the earth nevertheless dogs its tail between frozen breathings awash with pollution; but no longer on him somewhere along this line running between oil drilling platforms in summer's clotted shine which darkly regret covering him yearly in seabed mud while they cheat him out of light.
