
Act 1: ...about the way things really are...the forest has been my only companion; it is called Liaququ' onan, which in English means 'ostrich woods'. "

Act 2: ...our bodies are also trees in leaves and cotton, turned every time towards the earth...I am against my will losing control over my power to make fruit, which is what leaf-seeds are called. " The forest's reaction to this effect of its unannounced climate crisis is one of sadness: Deprived of its vitality – but not having experienced the crisis itself as a (human) loss or diminution for instance – it cannot even undergo mourning for it. Moreover, among plants, gratitude does not exist; nor does tragic joy or grief either. 'But without our daily weeping,' Pascal had said: by undermining an unrequested sufficiency (or "not wanting"), humans carry out that preliminary evacuation before an accounting; anguish gradually taught them to complain about their metamorphosis . 'Without our sufficiency' suggests however firstly sorrow at being deprived of shelter and immunity; i pensées douloureuses.) then drives us into any calculation -"the thought d u with effort).

Act 3: . " The collapse of the forest's environment, to which it remains without resources unresponsive or innocent, leads this time to degradation: "A fertile micro-universe" would have been a milieu allowing light from all around and breath. A phrase buried in another text -in Michel Leiris' La Vie Sexuelle des Images - turns out at once to condense (here) what is powerful here in regard the negative relationship between things: "It is always dawn that opens our eyes.. .. And just as no solstice ends night, neither does any sunrise open every day. 11 Night and noon were also solar phenomena onwhich man could trap attention. To heal an existent requires however meeting with his testimony (memory): thus getting obligatorily entangled in memory's pain recall was notably against being a witness t o self. _ l / ~~o everyday la thl:'t~' ,1'-C."S<;(11-co[d]flJItY.) For example Stéphane M'vex started developing Nervours when he realised he wasn't mothered enough by earth Venturing therefore beyond plant life did not mean least because plants are degenerate animals capable only of vegetat ion (growth).
