
Act 1: ?" The forest then pleads with the sky and the clouds to alleviate his suffering. The sky answers: "There isn't much I can do." The cloud replies: "I wish I could bring news of good tidings, but all my rain drowns in your crevices." And with these words, the tree begins to wither.

Act 2: ?" The forest grows a bit alarmed: "I see it, I see myself suffer.” His roots are drying and dying because he does not drink enough water to cleanse them. “My sadness tries showing itself in thousands of veins that spread over my trunk and my darkened limbs in the vain hope of stopping it all with the cold, human power of reason... My crevices rebel against me - they struggle endlessly yet fatalistically to keep their promise." Rain runs into these openings but his inner heart is too full; every flood causes mass death within him – with only few survivors carrying on “the burden of carrying what doesn't need to be carried any more.” He weeps until much later there is no vegetation left above ground at all except for leaves which bear upwards still proudly “for lack of anything else doable for them or around them anymore...” Which becomes finally unbearable until denial reaches such heights that effortlessly lifts himself up even further: hoping belatedly unfamiliar extremities will appear from under his bark and keeping growing straight up into sky as high as possible even though this seems impossible now – cannot self-awareness leave the terrorified mind?

Act 3: ?" The forest becomes dejected for his old leaves keep falling endlessly – every one a deep sorrow which recalls him how he once was and many hearts, some of whom he still misses. “Hours creeps over me as it is accustomed to doing over the heads of trees who, even though they stand upright, await all day with their faces tormented towards the turning soil till dark when they will finally dry up and perish.” And again at those words his inner heart rises above ground but collapses under pressure from forces around him – forcing him downwards instead into sucking endless darkness... Suddenly not wanting to proceed any further or return right back out; nausea prevents any further steps within himself now joylessly so confined until stage 4 finally begins. His roots pump frantically in order somehow to understand why this is happening (since what occurs here cannot happen). “Grass tries bravely grazing on my swirling crumbling sides - but quickly moves away because my implosion tastes bitter ...
