
Act 1: ---- So far I have seen only three leaves on this side that fell in as whole pieces. Only a group of leaves escapes every so often from me: the wind disperses them without my notice, but they recover after their paramparcas and return to be grouped again under one tarpaulin mat! Silently heartbroken, the forest keeps interrogating others (the sky, the clouds, the grass) about what occurred. “Was there any part of you that was not affected?” it asks plaintively – until winter answers with freezing rain which lashes down on its remaining fallen denizens and wounds them all over again.

Act 2: Alone, their leaves pulverized to the ground due to the harsh winter, parchments that have lost their saturation of ink, pages that are lost and become prey to your victor. You can speed up the past by not writing it ... It is a short cut made through time. I struggle toward myself as if intoxicated: sudden shifts between good days and bad! Pricked and bleeding memories cajole dangerous nights with infections when I wake one morning at dawn to find many more bald spaces scattered on my weary body. Some of my tiny grandchildren sleep far below; in vain does an indigent sun illume them for only those who see bring light into the world. “Why must we be conceived amid losses?” asks this sullen wooded firmament pleading its case before others – until one day early in springtime when melting snow from neighbouring mountains flows down across this frost-damaged orchard, rustling its tender greening shoots then seizing handfuls of forest sods as it passes by like a great crowd carrying very precious boxes all filled with newborn voices without sound!

Act 3: Maybe, on the contrary, my dissolution constitutes a fecund and collective expiation? (Lonesome tree: here inside me no one gives you tender milky stalks or wrapped green symbols.) Two springs vibrate together in the forest – each propelling its own leaves forward. “Hello bare branches!” says that spring which never gathers affliction nor relief. ~ The forest's unfolding monologue ends like this: In spite of itself, the closed body suffers at each moment; every enclosure is an effort to speak beyond itself, if not against oneself... What impels it toward seduction? To cry out from within its heart: We are alone in their midst!
