
Act 1: I shake all over as a dog would shiver in the cold, my muscles spasm and I can't stand still; the forest freezes internally. Something has invaded me.

Act 2: Fallen leaves swish on the forest floor, chattering like laughter. If a tree falls in my forest and there is no one around to hear it, does it make a sound? I try retracing those steps that brought me here, trying to understand how I arrived at this state of dying. I blame everything and everyone but myself for these miseries—but why am I draping myself in woe like brocade inside an abandoned palace? My own negligence is responsible for what has become of me; also God's neglect, who looked elsewhere every time he saw me trembling before him without raising his hand against me; then humankind: where were their eyes all those times when I survived just with the fuzz growing between my toes! Yes, yes: boulders too have sexual parts ... The grass grows dense between my toes and composes lascivious songs about its own filth ... Figs garlanded with greedy teeth set out from under many trees during nights so they can crow over bare branches far above cold ceilings overhead ...

Act 3: My autumn is a waste, my richness and my pregnant summers spill onto the cold sand like blood ... The tree dreams of death this way: when it flowers at spring’s peak—as I am doing now—and its leaves unfurl, happy to greet all that surrounds them, then winter comes unexpectedly and snaps their stems with frost; they cry ”I didn’t know! I didn’t know!” as they collapse. -Th isis how I scream in front of the mirror which has been held up before me by God: (I yell): “I don’t want to die! Cold killed my sisters – leaving me here sleeplessly patient for several flaunted springs. 1 don't want to die! And if our days are numbered anyway what joy we could have on those nights between January and February when ice stands guard over every cell in our bodies trying to freeze us solid — what sort of lovemaking happens then? Winter tries violently but fruitlessly, clawing deep into our insides with blizzard fingers; soon enough we convulse hard ourselves until just trembling pulp sits atop hardened bones ...
