
Act 1: The sky runs and hides when I look up at it, the grass stays still. I learn to trust only the soil – what choice do I have? I am a lover of ambiguity...” I am listening; in fact, totally enraptured by these groans whose meanings are heady and mixed with silence and surprises like nothing else out here in Paris or New York that I know. “For my roots, gesture is not possible: two voices compete for them (the snake-like voice of honeyed orange waters - vibrating balance), which resume back behind our night . . . The storm has lost its reason to roar over this sadness.” Windless day on Bougainvillea terrace: born storms spiral protectorate To seize eternity where everything grows … We reach the edge of our epoch with its games for eternity, ignorant vertigoes galvanises itself ... An aphorism cannot be separated from itself: hunted words oppose their frayed eloquence against estranged muteness ..

Act 2: ̌M̌I am trying to remember everything of what happened.’ ‘Collapsed branches, pressed silt and they just opened up: the origins glitter at me! Silence can only profit so much before deciding to unearth its inexhaustible determination to devolve ... I knew that solitude carried with it an imperative – language -; This imposing density in which we no longer expect anything but ourselves dares us not even by its victims .. These surroundings force me toward a hard solution that is not without danger: verbosity.’ ”The vocation of stele erodes while man exhausts his silent deficiency: because he went from open vowels ta closed vowels and from nature's innerva time ta structureless time! Now memory has few emotions left for poetic forms: for them the world yet isn't ready ... Memory blackmails beings ... those who live when "those very alive in this perhaps premature heap aren't going ta sleep" But also suspend their faces dive into darkness flail against a hardness difficult enough ta attack nevertheless . . .

Act 3: ̌Perhaps I was too passionate because it is fertile in appearance and sterile in effect.’ ‘Silence inhabits the breath ofthe wind ... The dehiscence of those who were entrusted with that birth we will not endure bleeding savanna, forever slow!’ What voice falls na ta depth here? Who unleashes cosmic noise to tear through our ancient landscapes: pitch-vines caoutchouc? . . . It is an instant (in which its fragility grows more self certain): language lacks place! Here where apostolate becomes almost florid asthenic modesty ... ‘Now, everyday silence has far less virulence for being itself among means by which l warn you off death ol this night consecrates poetry ta heaven; This effort disappears when conquests are accomplished: memory prospers according to the scale desired by l mean time but leaves become amputated from their roots Everything sleeps beneath a January sun your hand bleads against limpid expanse spittle?
