
Act 1: I stare at time passing by, amazed, Losing my leaves to it in support. ----

Act 2: ---- Last act: The forest is naked and marked by human growth. ---- I have accepted that nothing remains of this life but roots, beautiful as they are. ‘Ah, so you admit what we have always called! Welcome to our side, sister!’ ... the earth says to me with pleasure … She speaks a secret word in my ear alone not to alarm the rest of creation … --- Caption on v a rious French versions reads: ‘Sorrows proceed even though leaves fall.’ To George Oppen the book represents ‘a fantasy about trees . . . their struggle for existenc e on s and dunes which suck away moisture from ground water’; and it expresses in addition nature's conversational id iolect – its secrets th en unexpectedly revealed through translation into English by Robert Wegner (2001). This enchanted wood picks out Søren Kierkegaard's idea that each human emotion has an associated colour – so green might function as the colour of hope or envy thereof; whereas pink might speak volumes about love or either sin thereof.

Act 3: Somewhat trembling, I remind the earth to take good care of my progeny, That she was previously sworn by the skies to hold her soil in high regard and protect it for those who would plant their roots on our fertile vault once we have all perished. The delighted earth comfortingly embraces me back with a robust hug and promises not to forget my tender descendants that grew out of me while I reassuredly dissolved myself away. Jut like this will come the future, regardless how shameful or cheeky it is! ‘If your parents were reluctant to listen when we asked them nicely whether they might consider letting you live so we can enjoy your beauty; but then decided instead – in order that you might be born even though you are ashamed both of us and yourselves (and perhaps this 'and' is pronounced scandalously) – if your understandably sheepish phantom becomes exposed over there amidst bareness after one last earthly glimpse rises above us as well [that being One Eye which has grown lazy wielding neither arc nor sling lest he miss], then tell yourself: My halcyon day has dawned!
