
Act 1: 'What is the purpose of it all, life?’ The wind answers, ‘Move on! Move on through! There are no answers for you here.’ I feel as if leaves have stripped me bare: disorientated, a little lost. As sleep comes that night at last and takes me gently in to its basin, what rises from me isn't one fog but an entire cyclone. Is this when my bark begins cracking into hundreds of squares? Are those ragged edges I see surrounding my trunk? My branches huddle together with fear even though there isn't a breeze to snap them in two. I do not know what stirs between the driftwood and fallen trees during that sleeplessness – that black phase after due anarchy has passed – who or what steps across these corridors of mine without so much as sliding by silent footstep over protruding root ... When I wake again next morning it seems right then simply just to open up further; peel everything back like tender fruit heedless almost to season, until suddenly there is neither forest nor prayer only a soft wind blowing against mirrors . . . Was there ever less than all this?!

Act 2: !!! I look back at the garden of hard trees that once were mine and see this season’s dark harvest: my evergreens all have dropped their needle leaves upon the ground! Were those figaro-leaves, redcapped sorrel , white escallonia, spicy fennel? They are bundled together in a verdant pool by now. ‘Quick,’ I think; ‘don your shield as quickly as possible or you will die!’ Leaves pelt one after another to the soil – fold on top of each other with vehemence – Winter is here at last but strongest against heath lilies (one by one they tumble down), bud hips and corollas. The periwinkle sky is uncovered: blue cold moon makes sure paths cool from holly root to locked bot - until suddenly there is neither forest nor prayer ... Are these magic edges surrounding me too based somewhere on historical myths about labyrinths? Will I travel beyond into some unknown ecologies? Or do impenetrable mythic forces lurk ahead already and wait for my own surrender to signal theirs?!

Act 3: !!! And other leaves which, unrolled when winter arrives, might bloom forth... bare stalks have no choice but to burrow into the ground. When will I catch the first liquid rays of sunlight again? ‘Hurry! Hurry!’ Night falls upon us and in spite of my prayers i do not replace you ... Daylight rises and this time l call out three times but you are still sitting idle on your cane chair - Morning sparks green tendrils up: one by one they grow like hair all around me -- – until suddenly there is neither forest nor prayer only a soft wind blowing against mirrors ... But through my humid eyes what strikes can be terrifying. Unforeseen lights literally batter me to death; fine vapors thud at my barks and claws until finally it seems that clear blue gossamer sheets must already ripple with shock over protruding root ... Or perhaps doorbells play their music from beyond the woodframe? ‘Greetings! You’ve got some customers here for you today!’ A person feetless lifts his flageolet toward open lattices: see how breath shoots from his own pores squarecut so long in dreadlocks he pulls fresh air down along with gasps of relief.
