
Act 1: The forest: I don't wither, no more than that. Leaves fall from me like questions (punctuation author's). I shiver. Voyage to outer space, a nauseating and cold voyage even though you'll try hard to be reassuringly warm. ----- Leaf: Every so often Cavorite arrives in my joints and makes it easier for me to float away from the trunk. But please have her come only briefly because when she does tend not ever let her smother me. -----(Punctuation author's) ----- "Stasis – risky, insufferable condition," said Heidegger once and I understand he means silence as well as immobility; long periods of what Nietzsche called ,sleep', torpor spreading itself relentlessly over us like tar under our wet soles; look at how we negotiate with those stones! Are they active or passive? And this is how Camus talks about life: in the senselessness we must accept without any hope other than resolve ... The actor cannot act without knowing himself known by everyone else on stage with him ... but contrailtary oblivion goes hand-in-hand with injustice left anonymously indeterminate as its way of being less overt ...

Act 2: -------------- Augury, a mysterious announcement sent by fateful birds that is said to signify the death of a King or noble. ------------(Punctuation author's). How could the earth suffer equilibrium--? The sense I have grown most accustomed to listen to and perpetuate is injustice. ... And life springs up at last! No further silence possible between ourselves! Herds and stares (punctuation author's) meet in me. Old emotions thick beyond all mortal extraction conquer our hearts anew: incontrovertible consciousness achieves its own childhood slyness; completely foreign landscapes present themselves there before us like undreamed visitations whose influence will never be exhausted (punctuationauthor's), alive with greedy origins repossessed from below ground if only for one day more . . .. -----(Punctuation literary figure's)? ...

Act 3: ---------------(Punctuation author's) ... The secret of the universe is that there is nothing greater than a man except everything else. ------------- (Punctuation literary figure's). All the accumulation, all life around us emerges from oblivion! And each morning we have enough ambition to proliferate its meaning. -------------- Uninterrupted odyssey: obliged to flee our heaviness, dull terrors, mud and transience; wading ever deeper into immensities where neither extremity nor continent exist save through an inexplicable desire for contact.. . .. -------(Straight line of text in left margin with no punctuation author's.).----- Panoramas swell more than anywhere here because they pursue their own imminence so far beyond itself.... ----The anguish occurs when relation between beings denies the fraternal impulse it presumes.. .. -----Dislocation destroys meanings.. ... -------------------------------------(Inner monologue ends here.) ---- In this open clearing I sin as if before my eyes two seas unroofed by any void were relating stupidly together while awaiting me nearby; on another day I might be muddier still and caught between real grounds proud of competing unknowingly with one another.
