
Act 1: ---- (A meteor appears and draws a large arc over the sky.) Meteor: What if you stopped worrying about yourself for one day? Imagine, instead, that this whole forest was filled with me. [The meteor vanishes into thin air.] You wouldn't know what hit you. But sooner or later will it be fire! Fire! Or water – which I can hold back only with great difficulty because my roots are thirsty; or drought – which is drying up all life on this mountain top? One of these calamities will descend upon us one fine day and make nothing out of me but cinders and ashes. ... I hear thunder from way over there to the north; each flash makes our shadows dance faster than we could move ourselves, till finally they disappear completely into our bodies, just like that! Where did the shadow go? Into a cave in a hillside visible from here! Quickly now down after it before it escapes again. “I need water”—that's what I keep thinking lately; just as yesterday I kept thinking “fire”: both run rampant within me like two flames bickering at every turn—and behind them always stands God saying nothing but laughing fit to kill himself.

Act 2: (At this very moment, a peasant's scythe with the help of gravity slashes one green branch of the forest. The shade slips to death almost noiselessly.) ... See how they are dying! They are already beautiful skeletons—thin bones in the sun, reflecting Death’s blush so that under each leaf seems to stand an exposed and burning human body: these lost teeth on their way down seem to burn like lamps; by night they will be flashlights for owls or will-o-the-wisps. ... As I see it, life begins as a garden of radiating stars at my heart where all is joy and exuberance; grows into a dazzling forest; next loses sparkle here and there till I am in tatters scattered about a meadow; finally ends up lying strewn on the ground without protection from wind or sun—a skeleton covered red with rust. Can’t you hear time also singing its spells over me? There comes first cicada time – incessant scrubbing within all my cavities that lasts weeks but takes only seconds from your clock.

Act 3: Seasons of a lifetime: In youth comes cicada time; in full-bloom summer AvOKADO time – when reality expands, drips off the beard and we meet head on with our destiny; autumn brings SELFISHLY sugar cane time (for this sweetness never first loved us, but we spoiled it by biting into its tender stalk); now winter produces acorn time—when season is deadhead. ... Excuse me for not rising! The ground has risen to my knees, so watch out that you don’t get entangled up there in my serrated leaves or tangled light webbs. ... Yes: I am unable to raise myself because down here soil and air are plaiting themselves together tighter than climbing vines and binding me body and soul fast to them until finally you will find nothing alive but just rock inside which sleeps an unconscious tree. “Too slow”—that's what I think lately; then yesterday “too fast": both run rampant within me like two flames arguing at every turn—Think of those polar bears whose home becomes metamorphosed from sea into mountain­ -and behind them always stands God saying nothing but laughing fit to kill himself.
