
Act 1: Â ... Sometimes I lose leaves. ... What lies behind these? Â Who are my trees crying to in the wind and rain, every day of their lives? Â ... When I want something – a root or a flower – none of what is underneath it wants anything other than its own activity. Â Neither stalks nor tops give me good news. ... [The forest's annual growth cycle begins its downward spiral.] My potentiality is spent too soon; each year my flowers prematurely whiten on a few branches that then shrivel up completely, even getting rid of most of their leaves until all you see below the surface are clusters that look like empty cheekbones just mortared into place with epoxy. They resemble X-rays more than plants: $200 fees for mammograms instead of health care. $100 office visit for pap smears without any exam whatsoever before kitting out your muff with fur coats at an exorbitant price! . . .

Act 2: Â ... Everybody bent over, everybody lost. Â ... My tree leaves are dropping their green and growing white, staring each other down through the glass wall between them like prisoners placed in adjacent boxes on death row at the same time of day. ... A deep crack in my soil puts our relationship back into productive shape: we work as a hydraulically fractured pod that yields radishes both bitter and sweet at once. Â ... The voice closes but opens speech channels so fruit can escape. Here beginneth the blank century – stony roadfalls sealed empty-headed onto your face forever with bridesmaidd brainless gallowsbowls twoslicked filled to its zenith twice fermented groaning knocked holes depthgrammed hamstrung heavenstools exactly nothing arrived for detonate penetration dusted pathogenious seaprosessed shufflecleanup shitbuckets shuffle DDoS Shirokimas dropped signal loss error staydead settle settled settled get rid tangles tangle together till this train ties off . . .

Act 3: Â ... A trickle of waters has carved from me a canyon, whose walls are adorned by pungent cactus blossoms. Â ... [The forest is invaded daily by] obscene loud blackbirds that do not trouble themselves with my abundance but in the heat of summer fill their bellies on the roots spread out below, hissing and recognizing each other’s bands. Â ... The body of an ant has been beheaded during my wanderings between fissures – only to send up its head as though nothing had ever happened and for days afterward to crawl about endlessly, blinded because its sawed-off carapace falls off with every movement it makes, leaving not even a trace behind.
