
Act 1: Â ... And I hold onto the leaning trunk, it holds onto me and we are ready clumsily to conduct our karezza. Â ... Winter birds have taken over here: a crane like a Ming vase, unbreakable blue and ebony; rooks whose long nails scrape their shapes into the soil. Â ... My sky is getting drabber by the day. The sun never sets any more except when snow falls at night. ... Why can't you hear my cries? – Where already even rabbits run out of curiosity because though they themselves do not cry in this way it reminds them anyway of someone crying far away in one direction or another very far away, calling out in unhappiness through seven lavender fields as several gleaming earmuffs floating down high above him make an eight-part harmony with his grief . . ..

Act 2: Â ... When spring was losing the hue of her sheaths and hazes, then it wasn't at all autumn that I had in mind but ever more enchained evenings against the schist of February.Â ... Human words: Freedom! A little girl holds up a flag as gabardine folds across my vineyards redolent with mistletoe and cabbage glaucous horror. Â ... Me we refuse to see him standing behind us without feeling threatened l"ve got no eyes for you honest man!

Act 3: Â ... Our winds are not reaching you, even though they may be sweeping over an ounce of your zincc. Â ... What lived - and flees: What didn't live - and has come to life: Four-footed ostracism, clotted shabehs, nosy naperkins! Â ... Can a forest know pity? I ask it. I don't think so; or else underneath me this would have brought about nothingness a long time ago. Â ... You enter here with cunning in the guise of that sorry winter night when towards lhe East only three little stars shine which will turn out to be moist noses touching each other feverishly through straws. ('And' between hollow fingers!) Adolescence is there again (and more imperative than ever) guarding its position against the befores still resisting engendering madmen eternakcllly on bitumen grounds . . . .
