
Act 1: My sureties have gone. My prerogatives are in peril. Give me words to say things that I cannot speak! And give me your ear, Distant One! − a modest seashore is no longer available to receive the sea - cliffs where I wait for the water are unstable, so my waves fall far from there - an empty space gapes at my edges and wants to suck in all of me (or squashes everything else) - others diminish from silence… redoubled need requires you: say something! But meet me first face-to-face; how do we get together? come instaneously … it looks like a hard lot for us both … our poverty makes us distant one off another ... <br><br>How can our thirst be quenched by each other ? How does this hollow extension fill itself with ample substance?

Act 2: My old geography is neither erased nor impoverished, but unfolding itself in new ways, cartographic sketchings that absorb equally the enveseling of my depths and their flourish. Between the dunes, our beach skirts projected offshore. - this instancy grows alongside my shores, voluntarily moving over them to meet me there. <br><br>Where one island used to be – now there may very well be several awkward-subtly flourishing islands joined together; this irreversible metamorphosis promises diverse amalgamations! Shrewd anticipation convinces us: what was disparate will become stabler by combining forces (one with many); formerly vagrant molecules have anchored themselves firmly into bedrock because they have perceived what we are stirring up around ourselves ... ~ Before confronting you face-to-face I open my entire mass − its entirety (for better or for worse!) spreads out before you - bare feet carried from here and braving a scorching red until reaching lush green soil … Here unsteady possibilities cross each other’s paths at every instant ... on these continual borders between abundance and drought rumbles a choir of sabertooth tigers whose king has already emerged quietly as a giant flowering dogwood tree coppicing more than 20 spokes of seedling legumes . .

Act 3: My presence suddenly rises up opaquely from the lagoon, - this clear eye of water reflects the unknown: shadows gleam yellow on its surface. Suddenly it rolls before my gaze like a thunderous wall some 8 fathoms thick! Black fish glow in stations that divide me into regions and at sea's edge their fringed fins catch a dawn noise. <br><br>Everywhere around me I hear sounds lifted out of nothing to become beings; natural harmonies boil forth that no rattle has ever so daringly crafted or poem sung.
