
Act 1: Every time I see the sun pouring tears of blood On my bare indifference, I feel both wise From one second to another and afraid. But it is not that you'll help me against death; No, beneath this nakedness more dry Than every stone here -this nakedness That before Creation summed up your emotion: To be There rather than elsewhere Or nowhere.-There's no help For someone whose land sustains her totally... Therefore let trees dissolve in mouths ...-Let faces fade away In breathing out towards space's loud blue Mystery those Names Called echoing through the past with meaning .... You were travelling over a thousand years Along the edge Of day , exactly following the rim of Possibilities....Like many travellers, you had come Across yourself ....And now?Now look down At what has become your destination. The History of myself as ground The transformation takes place slowly but majestically like mountains shaping into themselves their powerful history. ---- Land: They dragged us irresistibly Into creation from ourselves And being creatures gave him laws He had enough creativity still left Over for much guile and cunning Since so much remained unchosen.....

Act 2: ??????Temporary instability of anonymous powers? Permanent phenomena? ????? *** ???Soil liberation -anarchy as freedom, pleasure And destiny for things???? Created minds heightened by contact with each other Catch on to the passions That love and hatred Establish between souls Disintegrate into millions Of small bare powers. ???????I don't know precisely how that is happening.....Good and Evil Are developing depths within us By constant, differential tumescence; Something unimaginable draws me Full of feeling to the loud god Sounds me out like a marching funeral: -This music terrifies me!Why nature Changes its aspect In this way....Why I undergo A kind of transformation ...of right Beings ... ????????Because someone who is no one conducts (Or an essence leads) you. beneath The force that alters You .... ????We cannot flee Fate ...... The first lawOf fates suchas these Yet one be able and Nothave willed them...is not asking Why they are there .....and ever were..this Is what disturbs Cabeza de Vaca As if now unable unto death To remember his former life in glory! ?

Act 3: ????Even when you don't understand any more, If you can still express what happened to you and it took place in the air....then, each time your line Sets off from your mouth on its own, As though grown loose of a bitter fate ... -Whoever was crushed will be remembered By the loud column that rises Out into unwritten heights And after their death we call them prophets. ??????Where before they cast their lot lovingly with beings?They now saw fleeting consummate affairs Of wilder nature -standing in silence Around the changing creature That is composed only Of feelings that yearn for evermore Feelings caged by nothingness..... Such earthly vision occurred EvenTo those dead ones who experienced The cosmic shock not once but often Within shattering emptiness The Gods have stretched out far In desolate desire ....desire Acknowledged as willing To relinquish every form ......Deserved breakages Came over them relentlessly; They committed excesses Against tastes and embraces! .................And certainty Hung suspended torn away: Were seeds thrown back time and time again While indeed roots did grow in darkness... Was dreadful mental escape Still valid, or transformed...... Each one that loved too much Reality Has been imprisoned by unquiet Fate......But if love Ever liked all things deeply then surely Reach isn?????
