
Act 1: I have grazed the cliff that shelters my salt marshes. Nothing can protect me from these cold forces that remove me. I fear that I will become entirely transparent and thin in just a few weeks, then I will dissolve away to nothingness. This consuming force is not inevitable; there is an intercession possible: A great net presents itself − it surrounds me as a swarm of gossamer threads enclose around me almost completely except for a soft webby fringe underneath my floating wet body where polar bears wander at their ease under the stars in search of seal kills along with bowhead whale pods and blue whale pods migrating north in twos and fours off Baffin Island . . . Albatross playing sea tennis on stormy days. Arctic char coming up through silt beds where salamanders & frogs spawn out into our open bay tilting southwards during the long northern summer days about Sir James Ross's Voyage Through Tendency when he sailed around this cluster of islands named after men felled by time only to be mirrored throughout August by Herschel Island setting above our lands, forming another H whose white outswept legs mark Time stretched thread-like over oneness!

Act 2: My mass and form are in flux: they move. I want the wind to drop − then perhaps the ice will stop its pace around me, hardening this interface between below-and over-water conditions. Cracks snip into my calving faces, my shorelines erode by degrees as if at a future date we might be reunited with neighboring islands of ice shifted southwards by climate change in Baffin Bay so that there is exchange between us about our natures as îlets rouges’ situated on temperatures rising northwards up here where it always thunders off Cape Baïdoueur East once again among growler seals and walrus along still blue whale pods streaming north together with neoexpanded +500 babies hugging out onto open water beyond John Ross Island far along easting line toward Ellis Basin and MidOcean Syzygy. . . .

Act 3: The island is losing height as an inevitable consequence of the increased frequency and length of its freeze-thaw cycles. This shrinkage can be made worse by sea ice that gathers on its surface during long dark winters, trapping cold air and water into the glacier’s structure. A stagnation zone forms between current moving ice columns at either side – thus slowing summer meltwater drainage to a pace unsuited to clearing the ice sufficiently for thick snowfall, perpetuating slow freezing below zero all year round. In warm summers, this newly created topography means a reduction in sea level around this hollowed middle [see Fig 1: ‘Island with Reflection’]. There will soon be second-, third- and fourth-generation icebergs spawned from my edges carrying gilded sickle moons over fields of life still bravely flowering out to windward off our dwindling biomass . . .
