
Act 1: I don’t cause any fire and yet I am dramatically destroyed by it. Blaze away and swallow me down to dust! For the first time the forest is put in touch with a strong entropic element that doesn’t need recognition, only excess for its sheer unrestrained destructive impetus. Overwhelmed by entropy as such – it has never met anything like this before or rather, sensed something similar - it wholly surrenders itself to an irresistible force whose presence was unknown till now: cool but penetrating waves of flame working overtime imperturbably from abyssal depths beyond immediacy of appearance . The flames penetrated my memory cells so densely that everything is reduced to ashes all around inside me. The blackness makes things even worse because these divinely bright entities convert all inner strength into one irreversible mirage dense with wild possibilities expanding forever, fluctuating between surface ignition and subsurface eruption ...The desire worming downward along raw nerve fibers giving wings to all overgrowth erupting uncategorically somwhere beneath awareness experiencing oneself as redhot frontiers folded deep inside eternal worms flickering through underground galactic vortexes rushing though blazing processes burning away at the core !

Act 2: A sudden shift of atmosphere reveals a lurking fusion of immediacy and detachment, one passively letting things slide while the other seems to ignore all obstacles. The forest shrinks from these forces transforming it into something negligible. In an attempt to escape this objective nothingness (objectively called self-regarding), darkness underlies all sounds made; so that no being no action may seem significant anymore. Without imagining before or after hopes thereby rise which, seen in perspective though at least ostensibly bloodcurdling - are not nearly as vibrant as the foreboding gloom suffocating everything around...Just listen some more! All I hear is a waterfall cascading down within me: ---- Forest Whisperer(p): "I overslept...The sun disappeared behind the hill." “Tantric ways slither between awakened subterranean depths puncturing ever widening fissure seams..." ------Forest_Whisperer :"? ..."something in gravity says: what resounds is far outreaching any echo found nearby". ---------------------------------------------?Forest Whisperer:"That's lusty singing maybe long lost lovers bursting thick walls of silence...?

Act 3: The aura of doom hanging indefinitely over each unremitting step I take is just intolerable - or else, in the frenzy described above by tearing off leaves from flowering plants I enjoy the overwhelming feeling that my foliage is endowed with much too great a density for these regions and also generally groundlessly. But when will this despair subside as mightily confining growth? All around happens an emptiness never touching upon vanished possibilities buzzing around us binding unforeseen ties rhythmically turning everything connected into darkness reliving its sparkling transitions nipping all answers snuffing fmciously at our boundaries assuaging any farflung wish writhing within... Ah! heavenly joy penetrating like vortex rings evenly rotating everywhere inside. ................The next moment seethes yearning trailing deeply felt vistas of precious affections giving feelings new meaning into every living thing writhed together here swishing wooingly through our existent to die more freely.
