
Act 1: My mountains are gorgeous and magnificent. Their slopes offer welcome refuge from the heat, but dense cloud regularly shrouds them in mystery. By then end of the first act, my streams dry up each leap year and my fertile soil turns to dust desert! ---- The loss of water is making it hard for me to support even a limited number of human inhabitants. Island: During geological timescales – millions of years – I oscillate through long ages as an archipelago: two slowly growing continental masses gradually coalesce together over millennia and then suddenly break apart again over millions or even thousands of years after subsidence takes hold on one mass or another, sinking its elevation below sea level; such that a rising Miocene sealevel will eventually swallow these halves back whole into an iceless ocean basin some tens or hundreds of thousands years before present day ...

Act 2: My mountainous terrain is now shrinking. My characteristic high peaks are still standing, but my slopes weaken and erode year by year. I wear ever thicker coats of vegetation, covering the grey rocks beneath a green canopy which increases in thickness each summer ... Root systems hold many surviving species in place during these epochs of change. Some ancient creatures and plants have become so intricately adapted to this unusual geology that they cannot long survive either north or south beyond the island’s borders – nor easily transfer elsewhere once their home has slipped under the waves and been reformed only slowly upon Earth’s scales, given time scales measured in aeons rather than lifespans ... ‘Mass extinction events occur regularly on planets throughout our galaxy but not others: we think it must be possible to evolve into complex multicellular life roughly as often as mass extinctions wipe all such organisms out again!

Act 3: ********* (presently blank folio) ... ********* The island predicts its imminent dissolution into the sea. But it is not all gloomy! Cold seeps up from lower strata, clamps thickening ice over the sleepers: cave bear, reindeer and human denizens who sleep in my caves become encased annually in Arctic corales of frost. Ice creaks as winter approaches; great ice-crystal ‘stars’ hang within halite lattices dissolved out of flowing beds of saltpetre, above which stand stalagmite clans reaching for the light once more here but presently locked by cold to terrible selfhood. One spring day there will arrive a total thaw following what seems like an eternity of unending freeze – every creature sealed in hardened crystal will be destroyed on scales marked now by geological time rather than years or decades ... Turbeflow glaciers grind furiously down my mountain slopes each hot year. In some past millenniums – those belonging to the Holocene epoch dominated so far by our species – I was reduced into an archipelago due to rising ocean temperatures bleeding away parts of my mass through submersion.
