
Act 1: Gigantic dark incursion. Calamity of waters bent on destruction, Scourge of History-pain from unknown depth. Nothing evades that inundation brash's uprising: ‚Ž None From even the last corner, wiped clean at last. ‚Ť Land?s inner pyramids swamped; above me/fountains Burst open in gaping throats now driven dry And rained-in cliffs shine moistly as a head Grows ringed, more charred than feverish hands. -Witness how all things pass away into nothingness! The pillars crumble and fall down submerged By their own debris crumbles raining down The sounds are lost to the depths having no ground Though they sound eternally with one part Poundings drowned out by the willow cage Weighed again effortlessly within you Whoever think all tears receive an answer, Something like your water falls from higher levels Through wells between walls with distant dreams That pool forever these days have flown --Rilke" Rain Falls on a Distant Past‿ (1917).

Act 2: ˆ....I am (but have always been and shall remain) a sand-desert essentially unchangeable, in perpetual fusion with a drought that has now become my curse -an elemental fact. ˆ....................................... ˆWithout clearly identifying anything specific or being able to receive ironic assistance through the visible lives of frogs, lizards or scorpions I imagine myself under the domination those who are already dying: those devoured by corruption come for me far too late. ˆ.....................But there is one image by which I found courage?and it alone can mend your unsparing mouth -yesterday's desolate rain void of all reverence, won from more northern places, everything forgotten there seemed gratefully spent here all at once; so suddenly that animals concealed away came rustling out again and were relieved as if this lightning had not just struck downwards but up into their briefly secured space.- ˆ Rain falls on a distant past‿Rilke" (1917). "Rain Falls on A Distant Past‿" begins with an introductory question whose answer comes soon after in an empathetic outpouring towards this arid landscape populated only by creatures on their way to death.

Act 3: ˆ.......As the immensity falls, then keeps falling from above with all those things that I can neither experience nor see but only hear beneath the debris and false reefs -the internal orchestra of sleepers proceeds tirelessly as if in some very distant country.....composing for it. ˆ......................But suddenly when not expecting it, in rooms behind my spirit's walls (in which an absence is installed) something was emptied out like a basket thrown down heedlessly on to blood-stained floor: the incurable void began running towards this open door........(I have experienced more than once). ˆ.............It seems to me that there are erosions everywhere within us deeper still than recesses. ˆ...‚Ť If someone planted deep inside us overnight at various points unfrequented by understanding guides our water into narrow secret tracks concealed under dryness' shingle roof?awakened one day we would already be dead....weiser unweise Gewalt des Werdens‿ Rilke" (1917).
