
Act 1: I am luxuriously dressed with rich carpeting and the rain of spring showers enrobes me so much that I may resemble a feverish young bride. My lymph is holy milk from pungent breasts. The lustrous eyes of my circulatory system are happy when they can be bathed by the fluid, wind-driven dustings emitted by rows upon rows of towers to the horizon in all directions, flowering clouds which caress my greenery and make it more plentiful every day.

Act 2: A hungry season, this one.. . An insidious and murderous cold. Short merciless days, long heartless nights. I see my life scattered around me [...] My sap does not flow any more [...] the trees without leaves rob me of consolation with their stony eyes ... exhausted soil all 'round... parasites, vines … creeping death! Harsh sunlight sweeps over us from above; as soon as there is a patch of sun it quickly dries up all that lies in its path ... fear devours feathers laced together by stringy black feet - undulating snakes on the ground suck slowly at our roots while they plan sharp attacks on our hearts: woodworm gnaw holes into our own human guts which already bleed when we give them blood .. aimlessly scraping silver knives up against ourselves - little living cumbermarks irritate stiffened thumbs._Falling thermometer temperatures lower spirits and freeze knees – crunching through thin ice toward succor ... Cold mornings and icy tongues don't talk much nowadays – buried under glazed layers of winter conversational ice which seals tight lips to fists many months in advance.

Act 3: ... And so, have you noticed anything I haven't seen? ... Have you seen the blonde-headed child of a king near here lately? ... Were there miracles recently – in February or March perhaps? ... Do the gods speak to us from up there today as they frolicked with us yesteryear when we were children together and ran amidst sweet pines, laughing and pooping merrily! that is probably just bylaws for worms at work [vasaauungar] .. notes says linda hager ung natursvampar once taught their kind clean white sugar There are feet that lack eyes, trembling elbows.
