
Act 1: I'm nearing my end. I am eroding, evaporating. My trees turn to mold as my dunes blow away into nothingness. Soon there will be no sign of me except for quick-settling pools of soft bedrock and fossilized humus in low spots. Such is the way with all islands; simply a record in sedimentary terms, hardly remembered by anyone but that island's siblings, who are scattered off elsewhere on the globe many millions of years even where they stand today following their detrital demise: castaways adrift amidst an endless seascape creating lesser eons until snatched up by future scallop shells or mutilated fauna once again some time around upcoming Sunday (more timeslots available). Although the preceding traces refer experimentally to subjectivity – and this experimentation absolutely makes it necessary to seek out those sources that might authorize the consecration known as here "literature" – we must widen our approach upon Hammarberg's corpus itself. The Danish poet Rasmus Rasmussen claims he is one amongst many diverse influences at work within his poetics: "Yes! Nabokov was also part of him!

Act 2: I feel my time, delicate and slow. I have retreated and yes! I have recovered. Drape over me soft mosses and quick-growing trees that respond to the shifting winds of maritime regions. Quickly I am entering a squidgy bedrock, stabilizing in order to be able to hold more creatures such as algae that thrive waterside here rather than in drier localities; those lichens clinging there on pools we call mosses: tough stuff indeed! Crucified with slime threads but rising up towards sun.

Act 3: Ã…lets totter. This makes me feel strangely powerless – as though I am fulfilling what will happen to even old dead islands at the earth's end, an utter devastation as material ends. I sense its dark future coming closer and see myself in pools, slowly rotting away into rich thick saprophytic tangles of vegetation and goo: nightmare solitude! Ã…tterly less from day to day. Decay is spreading through the whole myrhizosphere around this place.
