
Act 1: The years have made me barren, greener and sparser. My excessive rains have washed scarce fertile earth down onto the sea floor. Our water sources are drying up: more wells are sinking each year ... Our soils subsided by almost a meter since 1970 alone. Fires – both natural and man-made - ravage my lands, forcing life forms to flee but also burning away dead matter that builds up over time on the forest floors, leaving rich beds of soil behind when all is said and done. Fire becomes our planet’s great clearing agent in a warming world ... Through this careful set of actions – including planting drought resistant seeds, using mulch to return essential plant wastes back into their habitats as fertilizer (feeding microbes who feed plants), cutting firebreaks along slopes facing fires due or threatened – we aim toward two centuries hence when an estimated 3 billion people worldwide will require the ecological services I currently offer them each day just to survive; at which point they might reach for my most fecund soils to plant crops as far distant from here as Greenland or Antarctica; keeping peace between us until then with whatever model they choose: market logics perhaps wherein large-scale cooperation would be conceived alongside nonprofit associations such as ours?

Act 2: We are roughly half a billion years post-apocalyptic. Earth time is spread through millennia ahead and behind us here in our islandscape. In caverns deep underground, enormous networks of ants have repopulated what were once cities for tens of thousands – the size and complexity of Los Angeles now but reaching back millions of millions from women giving birth to puppies into floodlit canals brimming with living vessels ... Here on dry ground, blowholes bubble up daily with escaping lost breath from a destabilizing underlayer. Any movement close by yields plumes as flares. ‘The geological layer below your feet,’ writes climatologist Richard Bradley about this phenomenon, ‘is more violent than previously understood ... Newly exposed gas released by eruptions along fissures [not only] sends masses of air shooting skyward like geysers[;] it also sets neighbouring pockets off in small bangs at the base level that sounds to human ears like warfare erupting all around you ...

Act 3: How can any tree withstand another million years outdoors after my million years of drought? The island realizes it must act alone. I make the suffering decision to replace the warm breezes on my beaches and rocky coasts with humid oven heat, in exchange for slowly growing glaciers between here and Antarctica. [This is] how I purposefully begin a series of actions guaranteed over generations to further destabilize our earthship even as I seek most dearly at every end to hold us steady still against such forces as we surely open upon ... Seeking out channels along which we might attempt change, I contract my elevation zone massively: burning forests that once pushed up toward 5,000 feet above sea level – forcing trees into higher altitudes when all is said and done – otherwise converting them from clusters of 8–10-story building height back billions of millions across eons into shrubby groundcover for remaining depleted soils where many species will not be able to survive together at their lowest elevations ... In order then that hardier communities may take root near base zones so devastated however otherwise divested thereof by droughts, seeking those nutrients underground which roots cannot reach without ice nuclei or viruses ...
