
Act 1: I lose the top seven inches at first. The sun is scorching and I decide to wear fewer clothes. Each time it sets, I feel parched by its touch and shimmer in the cooling air. … One morning when I awake, the lagoon has retreated from me very noticeably and my view of the blue horizon shocks me deeply – so far away! All around me sand is disappearing into thin air: piste after piste comes back covered with cracked bedrock. It takes five days for my coastline to dwindle by thirty yards – as though lashed by a hurricane – until one evening, two decades later than ever before, I experience sunset over completely uncovered dunes that stand on inland ground beyond any hope of confirmation or recognizability in cartography . 'It will grow up strong; this land!' ¶ says it: 'Here's where you sail your boat ashore! Here we begin again!' ¶ Such are then its opening words: 'Here's what goes down deep into itself.' And even more strongly than that: 'Come along with us.' ¶ The islands were nearly all gone now (and so were most humans).

Act 2: This making-of-land is not just occasional upheaval, it's the constant daily accretion of new bed along with the loss and reapproachment of shoreline. Here we are living into this aeolian deposit as well as its erosion, in fresh exposure and intensifying isolation. The island starts to look ahead: future risk calculations reveal that over centuries most inland dunes will probably rise steadily at about a millimetre per year from coastwards – during periods when there is no significant erosion or major landslips on the coastline itself . Thus one day soon future mapping might describe me bare except for my fingertips outstretched saltwards ... but what an enormous mistake this would be! As I grow up, I won't turn seawards so much (all due respect) as landwards; great tombas and funnels in this very stretching deep waste – like those halved pyramids which were pierced by men ages before us! That which is called Paris might well prosper hereabouts many thousands of years hence when nobody remembers our faraway names. − A vitrine rests upon a stage made of wooden beams blackened with dirt .

Act 3: . . . each of those winters, I remember the dark and the colorlessness of my body with fear: so little shines on me, I glisten with fright! Sometimes when night is most phosphorescent over a horizon untalked of any more, what sees itself reflected in its glass do we not sleep neither? The earth's cave opens beneath us at this moment. We cannot see it yet – but everything, every crustacean and every cloud or stone which falls into our deepness becomes visible to us through transparent rock for an infinitesimal instant before becoming ours. Here by your shoreline you are watching contemporary history taking place out of time – you do know that unnameably ancient fossils here gain renewed luminosity; worlds streaming without cease on the edge where land meets sea seem to reveal themselves magnificently again here to those who observe carefully at their watery borderline. Bear witness: giant ice flakes flicker away inside molten lava flow; in tectonic fissures there rise flames upon flashes older even than dinosaurs! Stones fuse without melting because materials combusting under former skies metamorphose one another immediately between sky/earth-cavity and matter (In these gaps meaning becomes prescient.).
