
Act 1: I host the butterfly Scarites cephalonica, which is native to humid tropical forests where it feeds on nectar from flowers. It prefers dense understorey, semi-shade and secondary forest habitats ... The larvae of this species feed on decaying wood in tree stumps of decaying trees ... In my north eastern region there is an area with higher rainfall than elsewhere on my surface. This results in a buildup of soggy soil – swamp really – between low lying hillsides and valley floors. Here one might find immense figs dropping their aerial roots into the rich humus; half eaten carcasses that have fallen from elephants moving through; exotic titan arums inflating like vegetable time bombs several times a year for any nearby opportunist mammals; as well as strangler figs establishing themselves partway up tall hardwoods until they choke them out entirely and block light to their receptive crowns below, clearing pathways only by which those surrounding ferns can readily prevail. Such gaudy diversity keeps drawing me back here despite the discomforts: leeches, biting flies ...

Act 2: The land is losing its green spike. All lushness has migrated to the sea, which already staggers blindly with its burgeoning bright madness, drunk on blood ... I remember one of my valleys through which runs a slender waving trickle of water in season. The ferns that colonized these droll pools seem to have entirely disappeared now. ‘The temperature has risen too much for them [ferns] here,’ says an islander. ‘There isn’t enough fresh cold mountain water coming down like there used to be; their habitat no longer supports them here anyway – and there is not much rainer water than that stream farther back up the valley either because it would all end up in our mine instead! So many things are disappearing from around us! We can only wait until it rains again and cools things off again so we might once more see our beloved fern lichens once more!’ Here where everything was dropped into my belly by God, something terrible is happening à l'envers – reversement transitive: rather than being sucked onto me by his force we are sucking him subjectively out of ourselves . . . This can be hard work when you think about it ...

Act 3: Ӕ̀ gwaay dzánaxsiiila’aan t-sill ayitaane – Everything is gone. Ӕ̀ gwaay dzeel ittayitaane – Everything has disappeared. ... ‘I am simply not qualified to speak about the biomass and climate of our old forests!’ says a young scientist with an islander’s natural eloquence, whose job involves talking non-stop without pausing or drinking hard liquor from 7 AM until at least midnight most days regardless of his previous concentrated efforts during the preceding week, making him look even younger and frailer than he quite surely is; this admirable laborer illustrates succinctly that: science cannot yet start to adequately count, analyze or inventory what we value as indispensable for our survival here, on this island which vibrates beneath skies shimmering these dark days almost inaudibly tearful where starlings fly too far out into open sky becoming meal for shark along with their thoughts and dreams plunging suddenly synchronously uncouth abruptly feathers dampen gray pink eyes glow sudden water flee grey fright fish gaze cold skeleton gold bright moon absorb unselfconscious heart sing suit serene stars screams balance … I teach raven songs!
