
Act 1: One morning, after one night of heavy rain, I awoke with a vast green landscape. All my extremities felt purified and new. [Poet briefly reveals the human state of spring: humans bathe in a terrestrial lymph; harmony between soul and body is also desired "on Earth" - specifically in the individual dimension.] ---- The day was glorious. People walk scented by fennel perfume which they extract from gigantic plastic flowers connected to machines outside their homes (1). The forest listened to the children play catches with oranges on the sidewalks during this joyous day. A blind man navigates without problem through these toy blocks lining up around me ((2)). He stops facing me and moves toward me like an Indio whose watchful gaze ("sun") feels certain vibrations in space where he has ventured into exile ('tro' = solel="Indian as he himself defines it; sun"). [(3)] The machine that men have attached to my root preserves life's sap which feeds clusters within said machine down its branches (4). Have you ever seen at dawn or dusk a tree trunk moisten itself?

Act 2: !!! My summer period ended! !!! The dry cold of autumn arrived. I do not know what has happened in me for the space where I am today can barely contain nor nourish any lymphatic vitality, nor only this is your power: Freshness from the inside of me begun to leave and with it my leaves intended for a spring conId not resist such change. They even pour on the ground each day their sap, which rots around them or blackens at my roots - suddenly warped by frost. ([Poet prolongs this tragic vision by revealing one example among many cases: brûlage, violence against a living being]) A parched man slowly goes through a tunnel fed by an electric car all connected to terrifying machinery ((1). His eyes are looking at nothing; his gaze aimed nowhere and he begins walking currently minus branches ((2)). (He beholds half-animism composite and comparable now only repression) His colorless skin emerged like that cicatrised bark served in masks dances'of intimidation and intoxication((3)), but his heart wounded must tighten up much more if it does not want to shatter completely under winter's assault ...............

Act 3: !!! Abetti on the trunks have lost their green opaline gleam because of frost. !!! A statue worn by ages, leaning against a tree here in front of me ((1)), a plaster face without eyes which mocks death. ((2)) I look at him and ask him: "Where are your eyes? ... Where are my leaves?" I lift up with tenderness his chin that floats before me while pursing the lips and twisting them toward myself so he may answer... no one answers but - how many shadows pass above me!
