
Act 1: ??????!I had imagined loving passion, feasts with lavish food and drink, a listening audience to listen to my praises. ??????! ??????!! ??? No one came except for Nature who bent over me like a mother watching her child suffer. ????????

Act 2: ????? My restless eyes scan the whole world for a romantic partner, but all I see are leprous sheep. ?????? ?*? ** My lover never comes and now that he has not come before this gasping breath is exhausted with waiting, what am I to do? ????? <br> * The English word cock implies an absence or diminishment of metaphoric niceness. ???? And what have you left me as merely yourself: my useless blossoming and fruitless tree-fruits can no longer be saved from temptations within their skin: quagmire of desire!<br> ?I was crying because Night had separated me so hard from Word (the language we both spoke) when out of nowhere Love stepped forward who led into myself the white curdled milk that then hardened permanently in crumpled sheets on my rock. love cajoled one last poet out of his writing hut, pitying those aroused passions without fountainheads . . . ! This time it stepped onto this island like a boar whose spear lustfully discovers lands and people inside itself.<BR> ????? already invisible we were quiet while birds whipped insects back demurely yoked ......because everything's pure except our violence ...every day being only betrayal .......

Act 3: ?????? ??????????? ????? ?I knew that everything must vanish in the expiring breath of this dying bluish man I breathe with into space.I already saw myself become a mere image of what?s past, lustrous and clear cut as fine glass after it has held wine . . .<br> <br>< i couldn't bear to have any thing stay on even for a second....<br> After millions and millions of years I stayed like stone, unalterable as an example.< br>(the gasping embryo person who watched this was kept relaxed by warm oxygen ??O2 injected into his blood) despite me being that very impermanence itself: in pregnancy's expecting gaze nothing moves or grows stranger to its picture while O stands still beside the abluent nest full of eggs. ?????? And if all gradually dessicates and turns mute under reckless skies (leading the eye blindly opposite roads down which never leads retreat), then there are no stories excepting wild tales told by those lions brought back from oblivion. ????
