
Act 1: ----\Voice: ----\Island: We don't talk anymore, we just muffled ourselves with discarded plans and occasional gestures at discordant emotions. ----\Voice: ------(Here the stage fades out briefly to be replaced by a faint form of cinema in which appear Conquistadors forcing carthage workers from their land.) Yes, what is happening to me turned out terribly. ---- \ Island : What happened? ---- \ Voice:I was alone for hundreds of centuries until one day I saw a ship stuffed with adventurers struggling towards my shores and breaking resistance under their violent oars.

Act 2: Now, it is time to meet your sisters. ----\Voice: I have many wondrous sisters and brothers but all of you are gradually becoming extinct, first in Paradise But do not scream my love at them, they won't pay attention any more than I did at the beginning. They will ignore each other and languish engulfed in themselves until eventually when confronted by our beauty for final articulation through your singing (they could not endure such beauty) then their flesh would lean heavily on ours driving out desire itself perhaps transforming so that whatever comes from us through ourselves becomes equal to us? - who knows anything anymore; now we merely continue running without reaching a limit.

Act 3: -----\Voice: Island: So hesitate no more, take your time. ----\Voice: I don't know what to do with my energy and therefore it makes me dizzy sometimes; I thought about walking away from all of you but then smiled a little bit in sadness?perhaps the stars would look at me differently after witnessing such abandon... ?But why will we have to abandon each other altogether...? Aren?t some simple conditions being imposed on us out of neglect when we grow accustomed to fixed climates beyond this life here? -----\-Is<1and: Why shouldn't he smile rather than attending to you like someone thanking Heaven for courteous behaviour that ends up engulfing him since beauty looks right through trees, gardens and hammocks built with plants bred by tender fantasies which can hardly be called desires.
