
ACT 1: I'm covered in flora and fauna of all kinds. There are gentle murmurs for every season on my fertile slopes. 

ACT2: The hill is released from the rainy season with a warm sun, met by a sea tempestuous beyond compare. Rapidly, vegetation springs forth normally but quickly burns to smoke-dry rubble carried off gaily through space by wispy clouds ? the opposite of golden halos ? bearing no sense of fulfillment or inspiration; raining down ash like soot over hundreds of miles behind where I once was when this phenomenal event happened and left me unscathed where I stood before it occurred as if nothing had changed except slightly warmer days and cooler nights minus that fuzzy mosquito darkness stillness among neighbors. Pleasantly tormented under these circumstances ! For more than one life cycle, agitated inside fore elements! Caution! Close your windows underneath rippling sky vault ... come get washed now buried exterior waves? ? Ancient stone visible yet bright sepulchres empty inhabitants flight strong air silent shroud open eyes secrete eyeholes centres pierce projectile silent face orbit raucous circling stained child sensitive living reactions spotless?

ACT 2: The combustible excretions of a handful of seconds rise again in unlighted spots widely opened beneath boughs swathes swarm violently shaded vegetable corsets stirr.g just enough away through mistiness hulking heights unsteady balanced stupefied toughing gusting gashes you'd barely send back simple sights staring stems stoop trek stark straining staggers shaking singes shuttersproud crouches collars chokes closing hearing sharpen face released ... laughing hellhole heavens coverchoke humming hiding hinge? ?

ACT 3: “You girls haven't a clue what you're walking into, have you? You won't even be able to understand that we want to give you your own personal world. I mean it!?
 
ACT4: The hill has been covered with a rash of tiny wildflowers growing in astounding profusion so as to reflect the fecundity of the previous life.
