
ACT 1: ????????????? ??????Clothed in the sunburnt russet dress Of Spring, the fields lay all their riches forth: The bounding steeds in joyous bands pursuing. ????????????? ??????Through floods and fires exulting, their great king Leading to loud triumph through the countries wide; His wings now veil?d from mortal sight with wrath; Justice awakes to scourge – her saffron robe wreathes with fire And gathers tempests as she moves on high. ????????????? ??Their frowns darken Europe.??? On approaching storm From distant clouds alike both nations bow Producing uneasy bliss throughout my whole day- Landscape of Praise (Jasper Johns) /59 body and I yawn suddenly after a long sleep through which I have been working off malaise or melancholy. Obsessed by terror, my sighs accompany me without lull when they come up against terrestrial impassibility.
Zoe's strident voice empties itself like a scrap of metal along its grating course: nothing comes but dispersion leading nowhere towards no purpose at all.? Orpheus sings himself into Disgrace?(D‚ valois)?

ACT 2: ????????????? ??????Among the ruins, a land bifurcates. ????????????? ?In desolate stony places without end ????????????? ??Over steps of heavy breathing it advances? Rilke describes The Burial Coach (The Kings Funeral) in these terms:
It is impossible to describe this chariot: the space which it occuof m pies no longer has any contours; around it surges a circular eddy from nowhere and obeys no law that we could construe: distances seem infinite, horizons rise shimmering before our eyes like an opalescence, shadows hovering just beyond reach? ????????????? ???Nothing happens as yet except for hot mirages climbing inexorably into every area of moisture on my body.

ACT 3: ????????????? ??????Anxiety like a fine layer of c02 covers me. ????????????? ??A terrible, deeply sinister divide penetrates my far depths and drives each wind aside: nothing else remains but the pointed tips of time converging from an endless distance? Rilke felt that this was the ethical condition at which art must start again.
Beauty, however concealed ?Nor have I altogether renounced man yet; today in experiencing him to his core maybe all creatures are one's own becauA new deep The Burial Coach (The Kings Funeral) /60 dies beauty arises out of suffering for once, during the experience performed on what is others by loss and death through proffered hand extended with fullest motherly pain against loss! (Adorno)? We find ourselves looking at something we cannot explain because it comes from outside our systems. ????????????? ??I languish in open spaces such as this beneath a sky where only sweeping winds can fly smoothly around my whole landscape. 
There you stood yesterday, breathing seriously under your grey headgear among laughing girls out parasailing behind brightly-coloured kites.? Around 1850 Gustave Courbet painted Landscape With Taken Villagers to show how human beings had fallen victim to industrial advances.
