
ACT 1: I'm a large and fertile hill southwest of Cape Yeu in the bay of Hector. I have a dense vegetation that protects me from excess sunlight and winds, which isn't saying much because we are between two mountain ranges. In addition to these mountains, the hot sun is beating down on us continuously from its high perch. And with this heat comes loads and loads of moisture, but never good ventilation or breeze. Wherever you go there's always such stench; it'll choke your throat fantastically no matter how long you stretch out at wash basin after dinner? It's not likely to change as we lack sea currents up here even though our constant rains release lime stone deposits once prominent enough they formed stalactites which hang all over like vast tangles of silver jewelry; marble peaks protrude violently thrusting through soil like daggers stuck in deep wooden chest.

ACT 2: I'm a hill not far from Dakar. For nearly fifteen years, in this region well known for its desert grains cultivation, I observed tropical rains with their sudden squalls showering my foliage and cooling me down intermittently until the sun used to reappear within seconds; days like that are hot even at noon! My vegetation has accustomed itself wonderfully well to these rapid changes which sometimes were so violent during storms proper that I almost rocked back on my feet. On foggy nights despite several meters of rainfall there is always some elegant cloud above us deploring an immoderate love for water: we bob along admiring migratory birds who want no part of it, gossiping about what vines or plants might play true host from now on...? Some root near by warned me that three weeks ago they had seen rats leaping ashore therefrom filthy fishing boats just offshore!! First men came upon me only recently carrying food and matches but staying under trees awhile because no one seems ever any more to have known how much time should elapse before breezes could ripen clapped fruit... ? Grassy knots rise up courageously again as all manner of worm reinvigorates charred wood.?

ACT 3: I'm the fertile hill in question situated near the village of Kubechang...? ?Only a few days after my alerting this village where elephants move uneasily from one side of the open maze to another, followed nervously by furtive hyenas opening their pores at sights approaching them directly or just behind: like a bed indented with debauchery which they desire and hate as well... In fact everywhere exhaustion is radiant as if drawn up to heaven's spires or brimming out below like clouds hiding emaciated turrets topped with human bones wound round in silver snakes.? Every night it used to thrash and curse: now an imperceptible snow subdues everything. Half-starved beasts rub against stone walls seeking warmer haunts. The tenants complain but all can do is dash brews down inside themselves swallowing bits that barely get chewed even then... And so it resumes, beyond this night on fire for generations when dawn rises upon premises rendered worthless following nights given over entirely blood and feverish rapine? Chests yawn hollowed by bites and odours inconceivable unless you cock your ears every hoar towards eerie plains doused with gore! How many winters without words will fail to retrieve lost reason!
