
ACT 1: I know I'm in an act?act the second, perhaps. Everyone asks me: how can you function on such a hard surface of granite? How can anything breathe underneath your soil, cracked to hell and burning relentlessly? My answer is this: I am indifferent to their dullness because they don't bear witness to what happened during that time my mother rose from her sleep. She was clothed entirely by fire and walked solidly upright toward the China Sea where she intended to take a necessary dip for reasons born within full knowledge of surging processional arms among brilliant stars ensconced upwards between her nipples' spontaneous opening that recently yearned for oxygenated tides once again after those some million years asleep at sea. Everything smelled like creosote here ? in which all the things are generated by perfectly equilibrated millenial swamps incapable of rotting or decay [on account of] lack of bacteria; nothing ever wastes away but remains vacant until further notice .

ACT 2: Most of my vegetation is rapidly disappearing because of this overly warm season that brings with it real Sahara-like conditions . Today I've barely received a single drop of moisture but the paradox then goes further until it hurts: since I'm heating up so much, I have to make this little run for more water - and from here on in, if you're burning me by punishment (save your rage for someone who deserves it), than give me something recently urbanized in order to dwindle myself with indulgent excess . Maybe put some condominiums nearby as preventive precaution against fire? Or indoor swimming pool centers, gymnasiums loaded with chlorine fumes where I can raise my body temperature so any new vegetation will not fear the sun; elsewhere my son has already been stationed ? next door there's an Asian neighborhood dedicated around helping kids develop their lungs through clay pottery and porcelain making. And before long we'll be picking out engravings or sculptures where he won't know how weak his architecture muscles were till now: they'll be remarkably conditioned flexible limbs capable given proper space of adjusting themselves automatically when suddenly grasping certain objects ? just like righting himself after slipping away slightly adrift.

ACT 3: ------------There is an egg, warmly incubating now in the shower tray opposite. Apparently there was a fire here last night and this afternoon I noticed quite plainly that something was popping?up from behind the tile racks: they're dancing fantastically! Now they are telling me to bust it open ? so I do ? bravo! Yesterday's embryo has halted its long teleportation between black holes: now where have you come from? You taste differently each time I cut through your whiteness. When we fuck you insist on taking all your clothes off; you've no desire for such petty distinctions as gossamer or tulle.
