
ACT 1: ?????? Act1: Human beings are wealthy. ?????? There has always been wealth here. ???????? I?m in no need of transformation; my past and forgetful cities stand on the coastlines and hillsides, through woods and primary rainforests. ?????? A few fishermen reminisce about childhoods spent nets apart ? along my shores, generations of Chinese immigrants have escaped unbearable conditions in doomed uprisings throughout history; they?ve started businesses to buy their way off into new lives as farmers or merchants overseas.?

ACT 2: ??????
I notice that something new and unrecognizable is taking place with the heat. ???? In forests, many species of trees are dying out mostly because their shade-loving roots can?t solve the ecosystem equation th growth requires light. ????????The sugar cane and grapevine plantations are being shut down. ???? Workers begin hunger strikes to protest logging companies destroying critical habitats for endangered species like bears in black markets for bear fur parts now coveted by ingenious Japanese hairdressers who find ways to braid astonishing wigs out of cool pelt fibers made even more desirable by the sleek disguise of selling them raw (a kind of fashion fad). ????? The air warms above me but there?s since vanishing point where thermal winds create a cooler microclimate inside deep thick jungles.? Higher temperatures change wind patterns. Only scattered escribed monsoon rains have kept my natives surviving as they still based on small self-sufficient rice farms do through cyclical seasonal cycles in which water reserves tank up during rainy months and feeds tanked carps that then relocate at feeding spots well across fields into more isolated pools amid bamboo stands along higher forest ridges fading into mountains singing songbirds ?

ACT 3: ????? Act3: A political regime begins to spawn, a polemical transformation. ????? Ideologues emerge from myriad institutes and microsociologies they?re now manufacturing unexpected viewpoints against longterm pragmatism. ????????
